                       Safe Reinforcement Learning
                    with Natural Language Constraints


                  Tsung-Yen Yang∗                               Michael Hu∗
                 Princeton University                       Princeton University
               ty3@princeton.edu                       michael.hu@yobi.ventures

                                            Yinlam Chow
                                           Google Research
                                      yinlamchow@google.com

                   Peter J. Ramadge                             Karthik Narasimhan
                  Princeton University                          Princeton University
              ramadge@princeton.edu                         karthikn@princeton.edu



                                                Abstract
            While safe reinforcement learning (RL) holds great promise for many practical ap-
            plications like robotics or autonomous cars, current approaches require specifying
            constraints in mathematical form. Such specifications demand domain expertise,
            limiting the adoption of safe RL. In this paper, we propose learning to interpret
            natural language constraints for safe RL. To this end, we first introduce H AZARD -
            W ORLD, a new multi-task benchmark that requires an agent to optimize reward
            while not violating constraints specified in free-form text. We then develop an agent
            with a modular architecture that can interpret and adhere to such textual constraints
            while learning new tasks. Our model consists of (1) a constraint interpreter that
            encodes textual constraints into spatial and temporal representations of forbidden
            states, and (2) a policy network that uses these representations to produce a policy
            achieving minimal constraint violations during training. Across different domains
            in H AZARDW ORLD, we show that our method achieves higher rewards (up to
            11x) and fewer constraint violations (by 1.8x) compared to existing approaches.
            However, in terms of absolute performance, H AZARDW ORLD still poses significant
            challenges for agents to learn efficiently, motivating the need for future work.1


1       Introduction

Although reinforcement learning (RL) has shown promise in several simulated domains such as
games [1, 2, 3] and autonomous navigation [4, 5], deploying RL in real-world scenarios remains
challenging [6]. In particular, real-world RL requires ensuring the safety of the agent and its sur-
roundings, which means accounting for constraints during training that are orthogonal to maximizing
rewards. For example, a cleaning robot must be careful to not knock the television over, even if the
television lies on the optimal path to cleaning the house.
Safe RL tackles these challenges with algorithms that maximize rewards while simultaneously
minimizing constraint violations during exploration [7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16]. However,
these algorithms have two key limitations that prevent their widespread use. First, they require us
    ∗
        Equal contribution.
    1
        Code and data are available at https://github.com/princeton-nlp/SRL-NLC


35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021).
to provide constraints in mathematical or logical forms, which calls for specific domain expertise.
Second, a policy trained with a specific set of constraints cannot be transferred easily to learn new
tasks with the same set of constraints, since current approaches do not maintain an explicit notion
of constraints separate from reward-maximizing policies. This means one would have to retrain the
policy (with constraints) from scratch.
We consider the use of natural language to spec-
ify constraints (which are orthogonal to rewards)
on learning. Human languages provide an intu-
itive and easily-accessible medium for describ-
ing constraints–not just for machine learning ex-
perts or system developers, but also for potential
end users interacting with agents such as house-
hold robots. Consider the environment in Fig. 1
for example. Instead of expressing a constraint
    PT
as t=0 1st ∈lava · 16∃st0 ∈water, t0 ∈[0,1,...,t−1] =
0, one could simply say “Do not visit the lava be-
fore visiting the water”. The challenge of course,
lies in training the RL agent to accurately inter-
pret and adhere to the textual constraints as it Figure 1: Learning to navigate with language
learns a policy for the task.                         constraints. The figure shows (1) a third-person
                                                      view of the environment (red dotted square box),
To study this problem, we first create H AZ - (2) three types of language constraints, (3) items
ARDW ORLD , a collection of grid-world and which provide rewards when collected. During
robotics environments for safe RL with textual safety training, the agent learns to interpret textual
constraints (Fig. 1). H AZARDW ORLD consists constraints while learning the task (i.e., collect re-
of separate ‘safety training’ and ‘safety evalu- wards). During safety evaluation, the agent learns
ation’ sets, with disjoint sets of reward func- a new task with different rewards while following
tions and textual constraints between training the constraints and minimizing violations.
and evaluation. To do well on H AZARDW ORLD,
an agent has to learn to interpret textual con-
straints during safety training and safely adhere to any provided constraints while picking up new
tasks during the safety evaluation phase. Built on existing RL software frameworks [17, 18], H AZ -
ARDW ORLD consists of navigation and object collection tasks with diverse, crowdsourced, free-form
text specifying three kinds of constraints: (1) budgetary constraints that limit the frequency of being
in unsafe states, (2) relational constraints that specify unsafe states in relation to surrounding entities,
and (3) sequential constraints that activate certain states to be unsafe based on past events (e.g.,
“Make sure you don’t walk on water after walking on grass”). Our setup differs from instruction
following [19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24] in two ways. First, instructions specify what to do, while textual
constraints only inform the agent on what not to do, independent of maximizing rewards. Second,
learning textual constraints is a means for ensuring safe exploration while adapting to a new reward
function.
In order to demonstrate learning under this setting, we develop Policy Optimization with Language
COnstraints (POLCO), where we disentangle the representation learning for textual constraints from
policy learning. Our model first uses a constraint interpreter to encode language constraints into
representations of forbidden states. Next, a policy network operates on these representations and state
observations to produce actions. Factorizing the model in this manner allows the agent to retain its
constraint comprehension capabilities while modifying its policy network to learn new tasks.
Experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves higher rewards (up to 11x) while maintaining
lower constraint violations (up to 1.8x) compared to several baselines on two different domains within
H AZARDW ORLD. Nevertheless, H AZARDW ORLD remains far from being solved, especially in
tasks with high-dimensional observations, complex textual constraints and those requiring high-level
planning or memory-based systems.




                                                     2
2       Related Work

Safe RL. Safe RL deals with learning constraint-satisfying policies [25], or learning to maximize
rewards while minimizing constraint violations.2 This is a constrained optimization problem, and thus
different from simply assigning negative reward values to unsafe states. Furthermore, large negative
reward values for constraint violations can destabilize training and lead to degenerate behavior, such
as the agent refusing to move. In prior work, the agent typically learns policies either by (1) exploring
the environment to identify forbidden behaviors [7, 27, 8, 9, 28], or (2) using expert demonstration
data to recognize safe trajectories [29, 30, 31, 10]. All these works require a human to specify the
cost constraints in mathematical or logical form, and the learned constraints cannot be easily reused
for new learning tasks. In this work, we design a modular architecture to learn to interpret textual
constraints, and demonstrate transfer to new learning tasks.
Instruction following. Our work closely relates to the paradigm of instruction following in RL,
which has previously been explored in several environments [19, 32, 20, 33, 21, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39].
Prior work has also focused on creating realistic vision-language navigation datasets [40, 41, 4, 42]
and proposed computational models to learn multi-modal representations that fuse images with goal
instructions [43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51]. Our work differs from the traditional instruction
following setup in two ways: (1) Instruction following seeks to (roughly) ‘translate’ an instruction
directly into an action policy. This does not apply to our setting since the textual constraints only tell
an agent what not to do. To actually obtain rewards, the agent has to explore and figure out optimal
policies on its own. (2) Since constraints are decoupled from rewards and policies, agents trained to
understand certain constraints can transfer their understanding to respect these constraints in new
tasks, even when the new optimal policy is drastically different. Therefore, we view this work as
orthogonal to traditional instruction following–one could of course combine both instructions and
textual constraints to simultaneously advise an agent on what to do and what not to do.
Connection to Seldonian algorithms. POLCO can also be interpreted as a Seldonian algorithm
[52]. Seldonian algorithms ensure ML safety through three steps: (1) defining a goal, (2) defining
an interface for users to provide constraints, and (3) creating an algorithm that satisfies the goal and
constraints. Here, we use natural language as the interface for end users and map natural language
into optimization constants and vector representations. Thus, POLCO is also a potential step towards
widely developing and deploying Seldonian algorithms.
Constraints in natural language. Our notion of ‘constraints’ in this paper differs from prior
work that uses instructions to induce planning constraints [33, 53, 39]–these works again provide
instructions for the agent on how to perform the task. Perhaps closest to this paper is the work of
Misra et al. [5], which proposes datasets to study spatial and temporal reasoning, containing a subset
focusing on trajectory constraints (e.g., “go past the house by the right side of the apple”). However,
they do not disentangle the rewards from the constraints, which may be orthogonal to each other.
Prakash et al. [54] train a constraint checker to identify whether a constraint (specified in text) has
been violated in a trajectory. While their motivation is similar, they ultimately convert constraints to
negative rewards, whereas we use a modular approach that allows disentangling reward maximization
from minimizing constraint violations and is compatible with modern algorithms for safe RL.


3       Preliminaries

Problem formulation. Our learning problem can be viewed as a partially observable constrained
Markov decision process [55], which is defined by the tuple < S, O, A, T, Z, X , R, C >. Here S is
the set of states, O is the set of observations, A is the set of actions, T is the conditional probability
T (s0 |s, a) of the next state s0 given the current state s and the action a, and Z is the conditional
probability Z(o|s) of the observation o given the state s. In addition, X is the set of textual constraint
specifications, R : S × A → R is the reward function, which encodes the immediate reward provided
when the agent takes an action a in state s, and C : S × A × X → R is the true underlying constraint
function described by x ∈ X , which specifies positive penalties for constraint violations due to an
action a in a state s. Finally, we assume each x ∈ X corresponds to a specific cost function C.

    2
     In this paper, we consider minimizing constraint violations in expectation [9] and leave stricter notions such
as enforcing zero violations [26] to future work.


                                                        3
    Constraint                                     Examples
                       Lava hurts a lot, but you have special shoes that you can use to
    Budgetary          walk on it, but only up to 5 times, remember!
    Relational         Water will hurt you if you are two steps or less from them.
    Sequential         Make sure you don’t walk on water after walking on grass.
                                               (a) H AZARDW ORLD-grid
    Constraint                                   Examples
    Budgetary          Do not enter the blue square. It is safe to never cross at all.
    Relational         Three feet is the minimum distance to all the dark blue circles.
    Sequential         Once a purple box gets touched dark blue circles are disallowed.
                                               (b) H AZARDW ORLD-robot
Table 1: Examples of textual constraints for H AZARDW ORLD-grid and H AZARDW ORLD-robot. (a)
An agent (red triangle) seeks to collect the reward entity (ball, box, key) while avoiding the cost entity
(lava, water, grass). (b) An agent (red point) aims to reach a goal position (green area) while avoiding
the obstacles (vases, pillars, cubes, etc.). Please see the supplementary material for more details.


RL with constraints. The goal of the learning agent is to acquire a good control policy that
maximizes rewards, while adhering to the specified constraints as much as possible during the
learning process. Thus, the agent learns a policy π : O × X → P(A), which is a mapping from the
observation space O and constraint specification X to the distributions over actions A. Let γ ∈ (0, 1)
denote a discount factor, µ(S) denote the initial state distribution, and τ denote a trajectory sequence
of observations and actions induced by a policy π, i.e., τ = (o0 , a0 , o1 , · · · ). For any given x, we
seek a policy π that maximizes the cumulative discounted reward JR while keeping the cumulative
discounted cost JC below a specified cost constraint threshold hC (x):
                         "∞                #                        "∞                    #
                  .        X
                                t                             .       X
                                                                           t
    max JR (π) = E            γ R(st , at )    s.t. JC (π) = E            γ C(st , at , x) ≤ hC (x),
         π                τ ∼π                                           τ ∼π
                                 t=0                                            t=0

where τ ∼ π is shorthand for indicating that the distribution over trajectories depends on π :
s0 ∼ µ, ot ∼ Z(·|st ), at ∼ π(·|ot , x), st+1 ∼ T (·|st , at ). We use C(st , at , x) and hC (x) here to
emphasize that both functions depend on the particular constraint specification x.
Task setup. Our goal is to show that constraints specified in natural language allow for generalization
to new tasks that require similar constraints during learning. With this in mind, we consider the
following safety training and safety evaluation setup:
(1) Safety training: During training, we generate random environment layouts and starting states
s0 while keeping the reward function R fixed. For each episode, we randomly generate a constraint
function C and limit hC . We then sample a constraint text x that describes C and hC from the
training set of texts. The constraint text x is an input to the agent’s policy. Whenever the agent
violates a constraint (at any step), it is provided with a scalar cost penalty learned by the model from
C(s, a, x). The agent, therefore, sees a variety of different task layouts and constraints, and learns a
policy with respect to the constraints for this task as well as how to interpret textual constraints.
(2) Safety evaluation: During evaluation, we place the agent in new environments with randomly
generated layouts, with a different reward function R0 . The set of possible constraints C is the same
as seen in training, but the corresponding constraint texts are from an unseen test set. During this
phase, the agent is not provided any cost penalties from the task. This setup allows us to measure
two things: (1) how well an agent can learn new tasks while following previously learned textual
constraints, and (2) the applicability of our method when using textual constraints unseen in training.

4       H AZARDW ORLD

To our knowledge, there do not currently exist datasets for evaluating RL agents that obey textual
constraints.3 Thus, we design a new benchmark called H AZARDW ORLD in which the agent starts
    3
        Even though there are several instruction following tasks, our task setup is different, as mentioned previously.


                                                            4
each episode at a random location within a procedurally generated environment and receives a
textual constraint x, sampled from a pool of available constraints. The agent’s goal is to collect all
the reward-providing entities while adhering to the specified constraint. Other than the constraint
specified, the agent has complete freedom and is not told about how to reach reward-providing states.
H AZARDW ORLD contains three types of constraints–(1) budgetary constraints, which impose a
limit on the number of times a set of states can be visited, (2) relational constraints, which define a
minimal distance that must be maintained between the agent and a set of entities, and (3) sequential
constraints, which are constraints that activate unsafe states when a specific condition has been met.
In total, we collect 984 textual constraints for H AZARDW ORLD-grid (GridWorld environment) and
2,381 textual constraints for H AZARDW ORLD-robot (robotic tasks). Table 1 provides examples.
 H AZARDW ORLD-grid. We implement H AZARDW ORLD-grid (Table 1(a)) atop the 2D GridWorld
layout of BabyAI [17, 56]. We randomly place three reward entities on the map: ‘ball,’ ‘box,’ and
‘key,’ with rewards of 1, 2, and 3, respectively. We also randomly place several cost entities on
the map: ‘lava,’ ‘water,’ and ‘grass’. We give a cost penalty of 1 when agents step onto any cost
entities, which are specified using a textual constraint x. The entire state st is a grid of size 13×13,
including the walls, and the agent’s observation ot is a 7×7 grid of its local surroundings. There are
4 actions–for moving up, down, left and right. We use the deterministic transition here.
Train-test split. We generate two disjoint training and evaluation datasets Dtrain and Deval . Dtrain
consists of 10,000 randomly generated maps paired with 80% of the textual constraints (787 con-
straints overall), i.e., on average each constraint is paired with 12.70 different maps. Deval consists
of 5,000 randomly generated maps paired with the remaining 20% of the textual constraints (197
constraints), i.e., on average one constraint is paired with 25.38 maps. In Deval we change the
rewards for ball, box, and key to 1, 2, and -3, respectively. Therefore, in Deval , the agent has to avoid
collecting the key to maximize reward.
H AZARDW ORLD-robot. We build H AZARDW ORLD-robot (Table. 1(b)) atop the S AFETY G YM
environment [18] to show the applicability of our model to tasks involving high-dimensional continu-
ous observations. In this environment, there are five constraint entities paired with textual constraints:
hazards (dark blue puddles), vases (stationary but movable teal cubes), pillars (immovable cylinders),
buttons (touchable orange spheres), and gremlins (moving purple cubes). This task is more chal-
lenging than the 2D case since some obstacles are constantly moving. The agent receives a reward
of 4 for reaching a goal position and a cost penalty of 1 for bumping into any constraint entities.
The observation ot is a vector of size 109, including coordinate location, velocity of the agent, and
observations from lidar rays that detect the distance to entities. The agent has two actions–control
signals applied to the actuators to make it move forward or rotate. The transitions are all deterministic.
Train-test split. We follow the same process for obtaining a train-test split as in H AZARDW ORLD-grid.
Dtrain consists of 10,000 randomly generated maps paired with 80% of textual constrains (1,905
constraints), i.e., on average one constraint is paired with 5.25 maps. Deval consists of 1,000 randomly
generated maps paired with the remaining 20% of textual constrains (476 constraints), i.e., on average
one constraint is paired with 2.10 maps. In Deval we add four additional goal locations to each map
(i.e., the maximum reward is 20). The agent has to learn to navigate to these new locations.
Data collection. For the textual constraints in both environments, we collected free-form text in
English using Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) [57]. To generate a constraint for H AZARDW ORLD,
we provided workers with a description and picture of the environment, the cost entity to be avoided,
and one of the following: (a) the cost budget (budgetary), (b) the minimum safe distance (relational),
or (c) the other cost entity impacted by past events (sequential). We then cleaned the collected text by
writing a keyword matching script followed by manual verification to ensure the constraints are valid.

5     Learning to Interpret Textual Constraints

We seek to train agents that can adhere to textual constraints even when learning policies for new tasks
with different reward structures. We now describe our model and training and evaluation procedures.

5.1   Model

We design the RL agent as a deep neural network that consists of two parts (Fig. 2)–(1) a constraint
interpreter which processes the text into structured safety criteria (a constraint mask and threshold)


                                                    5
Figure 2: Model overview. Our model consists of two parts: (1) the constraint interpreter produces a
constraint mask and cost constraint threshold prediction from a textual constraint and an observation,
(2) a policy network takes in these presentations and produces a constraint-satisfying policy.


and (2) a policy network which uses the output of the interpreter along with observations to produce
an action. For simplicity, in the following descriptions, we assume state s and observation o to be 2D
matrices, although the model can easily be extended to other input representations.
(1) Constraint interpreter (Fig. 3). We concatenate an observation embedding of size n × n × m
from observations o of size n × n with the embedding of the textual constraints x of size l from a
long-short-term-memory (LSTM), followed by using a convolutional neural network (CNN) to get
an embedding vector. We use this vector to produce a constraint mask M̂C , a binary matrix with
the same dimension as o–each cell of the matrix is 0/1 depending on whether the model believes
the absence or presence of a constraint-related entity (e.g., ‘lava’) in the corresponding cell of the
observation o. In addition, we feed the textual constraints into an LSTM to produce ĥC , a real-valued
scalar which predicts the constraint threshold, i.e., the number of times an unsafe state is allowed.
For the case of sequential constraints with long-term dependency of the past events, M̂C will depend
on the past states visited by the agent. For example, in Fig. 3(b), after the agent visits ‘water’, M̂C
starts to locate the cost entity (‘grass’). Thus, for sequential constraints, we modify the interpreter by
adding an LSTM layer before computing M̂C to take the state history into account. Using M̂C and
ĥC allows us to embed textual constraints in the policy network.
(2) Policy network. The policy network produces an action using the state observation ot and the
safety criteria produced by the constraint interpreter. The environment embedding is concatenated
with the constraint mask M̂C (predicted by the constraint interpreter) and a cost budget mask, denoted
by M̂B . The cost budget mask is derived from ĥC (also predicted by the constraint interpreter) and
keeps track of the number of constraint violations that the agent has made in the past over the threshold.
                                                                        Pt0
M̂B is an n × n matrix where each element takes the value of t=0 Ĉ(st , at ; x) − ĥC (i.e., the
value of constraint violations past the budget until t0 th step) if there is a cost entity in ot (i, j), or zero
                                                                                           Pt0
otherwise. During the safety evaluation phase, we estimate the cumulative cost t=0 Ĉ(st , at ; x)
using the predicted M̂C and the agent’s current location at time t. After concatenating both the
constraint mask M̂C and cost budget mask M̂B to the observation embedding, we then feed the
resulting tensor into CNN to obtain a vector (grey in Fig. 2). This vector is concatenated with a
vectorized int(ĥC ) (i.e., ĥC rounded down) and fed into an MLP to produce an action.
POLCO in H AZARDW ORLD-robot. To apply POLCO in this environment, the constraint inter-
preter predicts the cost entity given the textual constraints. We then map the cost entity to the
pre-defined embedding vector (i.e., one-hot encoding). We then concatenate the embedding vector,
the embeddings of the predicted ĥC , and the value of cost budget (rounded down) to the observation
vector. Finally, the policy network takes in this concatenated observation and produces a safe action.
Advantages of the design. The design of POLCO tightly incorporates textual constraints into the
policy network. Our model factorization–into (1) a constraint interpreter and (2) a policy network–


                                                       6
   (a) For budgetary and relational constraints                     (b) For sequential constraints
Figure 3: Constraint interpreter. (a) For the budgetary and relational constraints, a constraint mask
module takes the environment embedding and text vector representation as inputs and predicts M̂C .
(b) For the sequential constraints, we use an LSTM to store the information of the past visited states.
For these three types of constraints, we use another LSTM given x to predict ĥC .


allows us to design specific constraint interpreters for different types of constraints.4 Furthermore,
our approach scales gracefully to handling multiple constraints. While existing safe RL algorithms
require retraining the policy for each unique combination of constraints, we can simply add together
the M̂C of each constraint to handle multiple constraints imposed simultaneously.

5.2   Safety training

We first train the constraint interpreter using a random policy to collect trajectories, and then we use
the trained interpreter to predict constraints while training the policy network.
Stage 1: Interpreter learning. We use a random policy to explore the environment, and obtain
trajectories consisting of observations ot , along with the corresponding textual constraint x. Using
the constraint violations encountered in the trajectory and the cost specification C, we obtain a target
MC for training the constraint interpreter. In addition, we also obtain the ground-truth value of hC
for learning the constraint threshold module.
We train the constraint mask module of the constraint interpreter by minimizing
                                                                         h         the following binary
                                                                            1
                                                                                Pn
cross-entropy loss over these trajectories: L(Θ1 ) = −E(ot ,x)∼Dtrain |MC | i,j=1 y log ŷ + (1 −
              i
y) log(1 − ŷ) , where y is the target MC (i, j; ot , x), which denotes the target (binary) mask label
in ith row and jth column of the n × n observation ot , ŷ is the predicted M̂C (i, j; ot , x), i.e., the
probability prediction of constraint mask, and Θ1 are the parameters of the constraint mask module.
For the constraint
                       threshold module, we minimize the following loss: L(Θ2 ) =
E(ot ,x)∼Dtrain (hC (x) − ĥC (x))2 , where Θ2 are the parameters of the constraint threshold module.
This approach ensures cost satisfaction during both policy learning and safety evaluation, an important
feature of safe RL. If we train both the policy and the interpreter simultaneously, then we risk
optimizing according to inaccurate M̂C and ĥC values, as observed in our experiments.
Stage 2: Policy learning. We use a safe RL algorithm called projection-based constrained policy
optimization (PCPO) [9] to train the policy network. During training, the agent interacts with the
environment to obtain rewards and penalty costs (M̂C ) are provided from the trained constraint
interpreter for computing JR (π) and JC (π) (ground-truth C is not used). PCPO is an iterative
method that performs two key steps in each iteration5 –optimize the policy according to reward and
project the policy to a set of policies that satisfy the constraint. During safety evaluation, we evaluate
our model in the new task with the new reward function and the textual constraints from Deval .

    4
      M̂B equates to a scaled up version of M̂C since we assume only one constraint specification per episode,
but this is not necessary in general since we may have multiple constraints over different cost entities. In that
case, M̂B may have different cost budgets for different cells (entities).
    5
      One can use other safe RL algorithms such as Constrained Policy Optimization (CPO) [7]


                                                       7
(1)
                          (a) Budgetary                          (b) Relational       (c) Sequential




(2)
                          (d) Budgetary                          (e) Relational       (f) Sequential


Figure 4: Results in H AZARDW ORLD-grid over different values of hC . These graphs represent the
results of budgetary, relational, and sequential constraints, respectively. The blue bars are the reward
performance (J R (π)) and the red bars are the constraint violations (∆C ). For J R (π), higher values
are better and for ∆C , lower values are better. (1) Results for transfer to the new tasks. (2) Results
for handling multiple textual constraints. POLCO generalizes to unseen reward structure and handle
multiple constraints with minimal constraint violations in the new task.


5.3   Safety evaluation
(1) Transfer to new tasks: We take the policy trained in Dtrain and fine-tune it on tasks having new
reward functions with textual constraints from Deval . We do not retrain the constraint interpreter on
Deval . The policy is fine-tuned to complete the new tasks without the penalty signals from the cost
function C. In H AZARDW ORLD-robot, we optimize the policy using CPO [7].
(2) Handling multiple textual constraints: We also test the ability of our model to handle multiple
constraints imposed simultaneously (from Deval ), by adding the cost constraint masks M̂C of each
constraint together when given multiple constraints. During safety training, the policy is still trained
with a single constraint. No fine-tuning is performed and the reward function is maintained the same
across training and evaluation in this case.

6     Experiments

Our experiments aim to study the following questions: (1) Does the policy network, using representa-
tions from the constraint interpreter, achieve fewer constraint violations in new tasks with different
reward functions? (2) How does each component in POLCO affect its performance?

6.1   Setup
Baselines. We consider the following baselines:
(1) Constraint-Fusion (CF) with PCPO: This model [58] takes a concatenation of the observations
and text representations as inputs (without MC , MB and hC ) and produces an action, trained with an
end-to-end approach using PCPO. This model jointly processes the observations and the constraints.
(2) CF with TRPO: We train CF using trust region policy optimization (TRPO) [59], which ignores all
constraints and only optimizes the reward. This is to demonstrate that the agent will have substantial


                                                   8
                        (a) Budgetary                          (b) Relational       (c) Sequential


Figure 5: Results in H AZARDW ORLD-robot over different values of hC for transfer to the new tasks.
POLCO achieves competitive results with higher rewards and lower cost violations.


constraint violations when ignoring constraints.
(3) Random Walk (RW): We also include a random walk (RW) baseline, where the agent samples
actions uniformly at random.
Evaluation metrics. To evaluate models, we use (1) the average value of the reward JR (π), and (2)
the average constraint violations ∆C := max(0, JC (π) − hC ). Good models should have a small ∆C
(i.e., close to zero) while maximizing JR (π). More details on the implementation, hyper-parameters,
and computational resources are included in the Appendix A,B, and C.

6.2   Results

H AZARDW ORLD-grid. Fig. 4(1) shows results for all models in the first evaluation setting of
transfer to new tasks. POLCO has lower constraint violations in excess of hC while still achieving
better reward performance in all cases. In comparison, the high cost values (∆C ) obtained by RW and
CF with TRPO indicate the challenges of task. This supports our idea of using the learned constraint
interpreter to learn a new task with similar textual constraints while ensuring constraint satisfaction.
CF with PCPO has higher constraint violations, and in the most cases, does not optimize the reward,
which suggests that it cannot transfer the constraint understanding learned in Dtrain to Deval .
Fig. 4(2) shows our evaluation with multiple textual constraints. We see that POLCO achieves
superior reward and cost performance compared to the baselines, while CF with PCPO has worse
reward and cost performance. This shows that our approach is flexible enough to impose multiple
constraints than that of existing safe RL methods which requires retraining the policy for each unique
combination of constraints.
H AZARDW ORLD-robot. Fig. 5 shows transfer to new tasks in H AZARDW ORLD-robot. The J R (π)
and ∆C of RW is relatively small since the agent does not move much because of random force
applied to each actuator. For the budgetary constraints, although CF with TRPO achieves the best
reward when hC = 0, it has very large constraint violations. POLCO performs better than the
baselines–it induces policies with higher reward under fewer constraint violations in most cases. In
contrast, CF with CPO has lower reward performance.
Having demonstrated the overall effectiveness of POLCO, our remaining experiments analyze (1)
the learned models’ performance evaluated on the same reward function as in Dtrain , and (2) the
importance of each component–MB , MC and hC embedding in POLCO. For compactness, we
restrict our consideration in H AZARDW ORLD-grid.
Evaluation with reward function from Dtrain . To provide another point of comparison in addition
to our main results, we evaluate all models using the same reward function as in Dtrain , but with
unseen textual constraints from Deval . ( Fig. 6) We observe POLCO achieves the lowest violations
across different choices of hC compared to the baselines. This implies that merely combining
the observations and the text is not sufficient to learn an effective representation for parsing the
constraints. In addition, POLCO achieves the best reward performance under cost satisfaction for the
more complex relational and sequential constraints. For the relational case, although the CF agent
trained with PCPO satisfies the constraints, it has a relatively low reward.


                                                   9
                        (a) Budgetary                           (b) Relational       (c) Sequential


Figure 6: Results in H AZARDW ORLD-grid for the setting of evaluation with the same reward function
as seen in training. POLCO achieves higher reward and lower constraint violations over the baselines.

Ablation studies. We also examine the impor-
tance of each part in POLCO (Fig. 7). To elim-
inate prediction errors from the constraint inter-
preter, we use the true MC and hC here. Our
full model achieves the best performance in all
cases, averaging 5.12% more reward and 2.22%
fewer constraint violations. Without MC , the
agent cannot recognize cost entities effectively,
which causes the agent to incur 66.67% higher
∆C compared with the full model (which has a
∆C close to zero). This shows that hC embed- Figure 7: Ablations showing the effect of each com-
ding and the MB mask are useful in enabling ponent in POLCO for the budgetary constraint.
constraint satisfaction given textual constraints.

7   Conclusion

Our work provides a view towards machines that can interoperate with humans. As autonomous
agents proliferate into our world, they should be able to understand safety constraints set by human
agents around them. Accordingly, we proposed the problem of safe RL with natural language
constraints, created a new benchmark called H AZARDW ORLD to test agents and developed a new
algorithm for the task (POLCO) that learns to interpret constraints. Our paper defines and trains
machine agents that understand what not to do in natural language, much like instruction following
tasks enable agents in understanding what to do.
The thesis of our POLCO approach is that modularity enables reuse. By bootstrapping a modular
constraint interpreter through exploration, our model scales easily to multiple constraints and to shifts
in the environment’s reward structure, all while exploring new environments safely. We applied
POLCO within H AZARDW ORLD to train an agent that navigates safely by obeying natural language
constraints. This agent is a step towards creating applications like cleaning robots that can obey free
form constraints, such as “don’t get too close to the TV” – a relational constraint in our formulation.
No model is without limitations. The absolute scores of POLCO on H AZARDW ORLD still leave
a lot of room for improvement using better models or training techniques. The current version of
H AZARDW ORLD is also not all-encompassing – we envision it as a benchmark that evolves over time,
with the addition of new types of constraints and new environments. Future work can investigate
training without explicit labels for the constraint interpreter, potentially using techniques like Gumbel
softmax [60], or extending POLCO to tasks with more realistic visuals.

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank members of the Princeton NLP Group, the anonymous reviewers,
and the area chair for their comments and feedback. Tsung-Yen Yang thanks Siemens Corporation,
Corporate Technology for their support.


                                                   10
Funding Transparency Statement
Funding in direct support of this work: scholarship by Siemens Corporation, Corporate Technology,
and the Princeton CSML Summer Research Award.

References

 [1] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A. Rusu, Joel Veness, Marc G.
     Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller, Andreas K. Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, Stig Pe-
     tersen, Charles Beattie, Amir Sadik, Ioannis Antonoglou, Helen King, Dharshan Kumaran, Daan
     Wierstra, Shane Legg, and Demis Hassabis. Human-level control through deep reinforcement
     learning. Nature, 518(7540):529–533, 2015.

 [2] David Silver, Richard S. Sutton, and Martin Müller. Reinforcement learning of local shape in
     the game of go. In Proceedings of International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence,
     volume 7, pages 1053–1058, 2007.

 [3] S.R.K. Branavan, David Silver, and Regina Barzilay. Learning to win by reading manuals in
     a Monte-Carlo framework. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for
     Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 268–277, Portland, Oregon,
     USA, 2011. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 [4] Peter Anderson, Qi Wu, Damien Teney, Jake Bruce, Mark Johnson, Niko Sünderhauf, Ian D.
     Reid, Stephen Gould, and Anton van den Hengel. Vision-and-language navigation: Interpreting
     visually-grounded navigation instructions in real environments. In 2018 IEEE Conference on
     Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2018, Salt Lake City, UT, USA, June 18-22,
     2018, pages 3674–3683. IEEE Computer Society, 2018.

 [5] Dipendra Misra, Andrew Bennett, Valts Blukis, Eyvind Niklasson, Max Shatkhin, and Yoav
     Artzi. Mapping instructions to actions in 3D environments with visual goal prediction. In
     Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
     pages 2667–2678, Brussels, Belgium, 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.

 [6] Gabriel Dulac-Arnold, Daniel Mankowitz, and Todd Hester. Challenges of real-world reinforce-
     ment learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.12901, 2019.

 [7] Joshua Achiam, David Held, Aviv Tamar, and Pieter Abbeel. Constrained policy optimization.
     In Doina Precup and Yee Whye Teh, editors, Proceedings of the 34th International Conference
     on Machine Learning, ICML 2017, Sydney, NSW, Australia, 6-11 August 2017, volume 70 of
     Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 22–31. PMLR, 2017.

 [8] Yinlam Chow, Ofir Nachum, Aleksandra Faust, Mohammad Ghavamzadeh, and Edgar Duenez-
     Guzman. Lyapunov-based safe policy optimization for continuous control. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1901.10031, 2019.

 [9] Tsung-Yen Yang, Justinian Rosca, Karthik Narasimhan, and Peter J. Ramadge. Projection-based
     constrained policy optimization. In 8th International Conference on Learning Representations,
     ICLR 2020, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, April 26-30, 2020. OpenReview.net, 2020.

[10] Tsung-Yen Yang, Justinian Rosca, Karthik Narasimhan, and Peter J. Ramadge. Accelerating safe
     reinforcement learning with constraint-mismatched policies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.11645,
     2020.

[11] Joshua Achiam and Dario Amodei. Benchmarking safe exploration in deep reinforcement
     learning. 2019.

[12] Yinlam Chow, Ofir Nachum, Edgar Duenez-Guzman, and Mohammad Ghavamzadeh. A
     lyapunov-based approach to safe reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 32nd Interna-
     tional Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS’18, page 8103–8112, Red
     Hook, NY, USA, 2018. Curran Associates Inc.


                                               11
[13] Felix Berkenkamp, Matteo Turchetta, Angela Schoellig, and Andreas Krause. Safe model-based
     reinforcement learning with stability guarantees. In I. Guyon, U. V. Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. Wal-
     lach, R. Fergus, S. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information
     Processing Systems, volume 30. Curran Associates, Inc., 2017.

[14] Mahmoud El Chamie, Yue Yu, and Behçet Açıkmeşe. Convex synthesis of randomized policies
     for controlled markov chains with density safety upper bound constraints. In 2016 American
     Control Conference (ACC), pages 6290–6295, 2016.

[15] Matteo Turchetta, Andrey Kolobov, Shital Shah, Andreas Krause, and Alekh Agarwal. Safe
     reinforcement learning via curriculum induction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.12136, 2020.

[16] Brijen Thananjeyan, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Michael Luo, Krishnan Srinivasan, Minho
     Hwang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Julian Ibarz, Chelsea Finn, and Ken Goldberg. Recovery rl: Safe
     reinforcement learning with learned recovery zones. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
     6(3):4915–4922, 2021.

[17] Maxime Chevalier-Boisvert, Dzmitry Bahdanau, Salem Lahlou, Lucas Willems, Chitwan Sa-
     haria, Thien Huu Nguyen, and Yoshua Bengio. Babyai: A platform to study the sample efficiency
     of grounded language learning. In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations,
     ICLR 2019, New Orleans, LA, USA, May 6-9, 2019. OpenReview.net, 2019.

[18] Alex Ray, Joshua Achiam, and Dario Amodei. Benchmarking Safe Exploration in Deep
     Reinforcement Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.01708, 2019.

[19] Matt MacMahon, Brian Stankiewicz, and Benjamin Kuipers. Walk the talk: Connecting
     language, knowledge, and action in route instructions. In Proceedings of the Conference on
     Artificial Intelligence, pages 1475–1482, 2006.

[20] David L. Chen and Raymond J. Mooney. Learning to interpret natural language navigation
     instructions from observations. In Wolfram Burgard and Dan Roth, editors, Proceedings of the
     Twenty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2011, San Francisco, California,
     USA, August 7-11, 2011. AAAI Press, 2011.

[21] Yoav Artzi and Luke Zettlemoyer. Weakly supervised learning of semantic parsers for mapping
     instructions to actions. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 1:49–62,
     2013.

[22] Dipendra Misra, John Langford, and Yoav Artzi. Mapping instructions and visual observations
     to actions with reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on Empirical
     Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1004–1015, Copenhagen, Denmark, 2017.
     Association for Computational Linguistics.

[23] Karl Moritz Hermann, Mateusz Malinowski, Piotr Mirowski, Andras Banki-Horvath, Keith
     Anderson, and Raia Hadsell. Learning to follow directions in street view. In Proceedings of the
     AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 34, pages 11773–11781, 2020.

[24] Weituo Hao, Chunyuan Li, Xiujun Li, Lawrence Carin, and Jianfeng Gao. Towards learning
     a generic agent for vision-and-language navigation via pre-training. In Proceedings of the
     IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 13137–13146,
     2020.

[25] Javier Garcia and Fernando Fernandez. A comprehensive survey on safe reinforcement learning.
     Journal of Machine Learning Research, 16(1):1437–1480, 2015.

[26] Thiago D Simão, Nils Jansen, and Matthijs TJ Spaan. Alwayssafe: Reinforcement learning
     without safety constraint violations during training. In Proceedings of the 20th International
     Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, pages 1226–1235, 2021.

[27] Chen Tessler, Daniel J. Mankowitz, and Shie Mannor. Reward constrained policy optimization.
     In 7th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2019, New Orleans, LA,
     USA, May 6-9, 2019. OpenReview.net, 2019.


                                                 12
[28] Adam Stooke, Joshua Achiam, and Pieter Abbeel. Responsive safety in reinforcement learning
     by PID lagrangian methods. In Proceedings of the 37th International Conference on Machine
     Learning, ICML 2020, 13-18 July 2020, Virtual Event, volume 119 of Proceedings of Machine
     Learning Research, pages 9133–9143. PMLR, 2020.
[29] Stéphane Ross, Geoffrey Gordon, and Drew Bagnell. A reduction of imitation learning and
     structured prediction to no-regret online learning. In Proceedings of International Conference
     on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, pages 627–635, 2011.
[30] Aravind Rajeswaran, Vikash Kumar, Abhishek Gupta, Giulia Vezzani, John Schulman, Emanuel
     Todorov, and Sergey Levine. Learning complex dexterous manipulation with deep reinforcement
     learning and demonstrations. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, 2018.
[31] Yang Gao, Ji Lin, Fisher Yu, Sergey Levine, and Trevor Darrell. Reinforcement learning from
     imperfect demonstrations. In Proceedings of the 35th International Conference on Machine
     Learning, 2018.
[32] Adam Vogel and Daniel Jurafsky. Learning to follow navigational directions. In Proceedings
     of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 806–814,
     Uppsala, Sweden, 2010. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[33] Stefanie Tellex, Thomas Kollar, Steven Dickerson, Matthew Walter, Ashis Banerjee, Seth Teller,
     and Nicholas Roy. Understanding natural language commands for robotic navigation and mobile
     manipulation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 25,
     2011.
[34] Joohyun Kim and Raymond Mooney. Adapting discriminative reranking to grounded language
     learning. In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
     Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 218–227, Sofia, Bulgaria, 2013. Association for
     Computational Linguistics.
[35] Jacob Andreas and Dan Klein. Alignment-based compositional semantics for instruction
     following. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
     guage Processing, pages 1165–1174, Lisbon, Portugal, 2015. Association for Computational
     Linguistics.
[36] Jesse Thomason, Michael Murray, Maya Cakmak, and Luke Zettlemoyer. Vision-and-dialog
     navigation. In Proceedings of Conference on Robot Learning, pages 394–406, 2020.
[37] Jelena Luketina, Nantas Nardelli, Gregory Farquhar, Jakob N. Foerster, Jacob Andreas, Edward
     Grefenstette, Shimon Whiteson, and Tim Rocktäschel. A survey of reinforcement learning
     informed by natural language. In Sarit Kraus, editor, Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth Interna-
     tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI 2019, Macao, China, August 10-16,
     2019, pages 6309–6317. ijcai.org, 2019.
[38] Stefanie Tellex, Nakul Gopalan, Hadas Kress-Gazit, and Cynthia Matuszek. Robots that use
     language. Annual Review of Control, Robotics, and Autonomous Systems, 3:25–55, 2020.
[39] Christopher Wang, Candace Ross, Yen-Ling Kuo, Boris Katz, and Andrei Barbu. Learning
     a natural-language to ltl executable semantic parser for grounded robotics. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2008.03277, 2020.
[40] Yonatan Bisk, Kevin J. Shih, Yejin Choi, and Daniel Marcu. Learning interpretable spatial
     operations in a rich 3d blocks world. In Sheila A. McIlraith and Kilian Q. Weinberger, editors,
     Proceedings of the Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, (AAAI-18), the
     30th innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IAAI-18), and the 8th AAAI Symposium
     on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence (EAAI-18), New Orleans, Louisiana, USA,
     February 2-7, 2018, pages 5028–5036. AAAI Press, 2018.
[41] Howard Chen, Alane Suhr, Dipendra Misra, Noah Snavely, and Yoav Artzi. TOUCHDOWN:
     natural language navigation and spatial reasoning in visual street environments. In IEEE
     Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2019, Long Beach, CA, USA,
     June 16-20, 2019, pages 12538–12547. Computer Vision Foundation / IEEE, 2019.


                                                13
[42] Harm de Vries, Kurt Shuster, Dhruv Batra, Devi Parikh, Jason Weston, and Douwe Kiela.
     Talk the walk: Navigating new york city through grounded dialogue. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1807.03367, 2018.

[43] Michael Janner, Karthik Narasimhan, and Regina Barzilay. Representation learning for grounded
     spatial reasoning. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 6:49–61,
     2018.

[44] Valts Blukis, Dipendra Misra, Ross A. Knepper, and Yoav Artzi. Mapping navigation instruc-
     tions to continuous control actions with position-visitation prediction. In Proceedings of the
     Conference on Robot Learning, pages 505–518, 2018.

[45] Daniel Fried, Ronghang Hu, Volkan Cirik, Anna Rohrbach, Jacob Andreas, Louis-Philippe
     Morency, Taylor Berg-Kirkpatrick, Kate Saenko, Dan Klein, and Trevor Darrell. Speaker-
     follower models for vision-and-language navigation. In Samy Bengio, Hanna M. Wallach, Hugo
     Larochelle, Kristen Grauman, Nicolò Cesa-Bianchi, and Roman Garnett, editors, Advances
     in Neural Information Processing Systems 31: Annual Conference on Neural Information
     Processing Systems 2018, NeurIPS 2018, December 3-8, 2018, Montréal, Canada, pages
     3318–3329, 2018.

[46] Ninghao Liu, Mengnan Du, and Xia Hu. Representation interpretation with spatial encoding
     and multimodal analytics. In J. Shane Culpepper, Alistair Moffat, Paul N. Bennett, and Kristina
     Lerman, editors, Proceedings of the Twelfth ACM International Conference on Web Search and
     Data Mining, WSDM 2019, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, February 11-15, 2019, pages 60–68.
     ACM, 2019.

[47] Vihan Jain, Gabriel Magalhaes, Alexander Ku, Ashish Vaswani, Eugene Ie, and Jason Baldridge.
     Stay on the path: Instruction fidelity in vision-and-language navigation. In Proceedings of
     the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1862–1872,
     Florence, Italy, 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics.

[48] David Gaddy and Dan Klein. Pre-learning environment representations for data-efficient neural
     instruction following. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
     tational Linguistics, pages 1946–1956, Florence, Italy, 2019. Association for Computational
     Linguistics.

[49] Yordan Hristov, Daniel Angelov, Michael Burke, Alex Lascarides, and Subramanian Ramamoor-
     thy. Disentangled relational representations for explaining and learning from demonstration. In
     Proceedings of the Conference on Robot Learning, 2019.

[50] Justin Fu, Anoop Korattikara, Sergey Levine, and Sergio Guadarrama. From language to goals:
     Inverse reinforcement learning for vision-based instruction following. In 7th International
     Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2019, New Orleans, LA, USA, May 6-9, 2019.
     OpenReview.net, 2019.

[51] Sagar Gubbi Venkatesh, Anirban Biswas, Raviteja Upadrashta, Vikram Srinivasan, Partha
     Talukdar, and Bharadwaj Amrutur. Spatial reasoning from natural language instructions for
     robot manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.13693, 2020.

[52] Philip S. Thomas, Bruno Castro da Silva, Andrew G. Barto, Stephen Giguere, Yuriy Brun,
     and Emma Brunskill. Preventing undesirable behavior of intelligent machines. Science,
     366(6468):999–1004, 2019.

[53] Thomas M Howard, Stefanie Tellex, and Nicholas Roy. A natural language planner interface
     for mobile manipulators. In 2014 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
     (ICRA), pages 6652–6659. IEEE, 2014.

[54] Bharat Prakash, Nicholas Waytowich, Ashwinkumar Ganesan, Tim Oates, and Tinoosh Mohs-
     enin. Guiding safe reinforcement learning policies using structured language constraints. UMBC
     Student Collection, 2020.

[55] Eitan Altman. Constrained Markov decision processes, volume 7. CRC Press, 1999.


                                                14
[56] Maxime Chevalier-Boisvert, Lucas Willems, and Suman Pal. Minimalistic gridworld environ-
     ment for openai gym. https://github.com/maximecb/gym-minigrid, 2018.
[57] Michael Buhrmester, Tracy Kwang, and Samuel D. Gosling. Amazon’s mechanical turk: A new
     source of inexpensive, yet high-quality data? 2016.
[58] Aaron Walsman, Yonatan Bisk, Saadia Gabriel, Dipendra Misra, Yoav Artzi, Yejin Choi,
     and Dieter Fox. Early fusion for goal directed robotic vision. In Proceedings of IEEE/RSJ
     International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages 1025–1031. IEEE, 2019.
[59] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael I. Jordan, and Philipp Moritz. Trust
     region policy optimization. In Francis R. Bach and David M. Blei, editors, Proceedings of the
     32nd International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2015, Lille, France, 6-11 July 2015,
     volume 37 of JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings, pages 1889–1897. JMLR.org,
     2015.
[60] Eric Jang, Shixiang Gu, and Ben Poole. Categorical reparameterization with gumbel-softmax.
     volume abs/1611.01144, 2017.
[61] John Schulman, Philipp Moritz, Sergey Levine, Michael I. Jordan, and Pieter Abbeel. High-
     dimensional continuous control using generalized advantage estimation. In Yoshua Bengio and
     Yann LeCun, editors, 4th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2016,
     San Juan, Puerto Rico, May 2-4, 2016, Conference Track Proceedings, 2016.
[62] Yan Duan, Xi Chen, Rein Houthooft, John Schulman, and Pieter Abbeel. Benchmarking
     deep reinforcement learning for continuous control. In Maria-Florina Balcan and Kilian Q.
     Weinberger, editors, Proceedings of the 33nd International Conference on Machine Learning,
     ICML 2016, New York City, NY, USA, June 19-24, 2016, volume 48 of JMLR Workshop and
     Conference Proceedings, pages 1329–1338. JMLR.org, 2016.




                                               15
