                                         Grounding Complex Natural Language Commands for
                                              Temporal Tasks in Unseen Environments
                                                  Jason Xinyu Liu∗1 , Ziyi Yang∗ 1 , Ifrah Idrees1 , Sam Liang2 , Benjamin Schornstein1 ,
                                                                             Stefanie Tellex1 , Ankit Shah1
                                                            1
                                                              Department of Computer Science, Brown University, United States
                                                          2
                                                            Department of Computer Science, Princeton University, United States




arXiv:2302.11649v2 [cs.RO] 17 Oct 2023
                                                     Abstract: Grounding navigational commands to linear temporal logic (LTL) lever-
                                                     ages its unambiguous semantics for reasoning about long-horizon tasks and verify-
                                                     ing the satisfaction of temporal constraints. Existing approaches require training
                                                     data from the specific environment and landmarks that will be used in natural
                                                     language to understand commands in those environments. We propose Lang2LTL,
                                                     a modular system and a software package that leverages large language models
                                                     (LLMs) to ground temporal navigational commands to LTL specifications in envi-
                                                     ronments without prior language data. We comprehensively evaluate Lang2LTL
                                                     for five well-defined generalization behaviors. Lang2LTL demonstrates the state-
                                                     of-the-art ability of a single model to ground navigational commands to diverse
                                                     temporal specifications in 21 city-scaled environments. Finally, we demonstrate a
                                                     physical robot using Lang2LTL can follow 52 semantically diverse navigational
                                                     commands in two indoor environments. 1

                                                     Keywords: language grounding, robot navigation, formal methods




                                         Figure 1: Lang2LTL can ground complex navigational commands in household and city-scaled
                                         environments without retraining.

                                         1       Introduction
                                         Natural language enables humans to express complex temporal tasks, like “Go to the grocery store on
                                         Main Street at least twice, but only after the bank, and always avoid the First Street under construction.”
                                         Such commands contain goal specifications and temporal constraints. A robot executing this command
                                         must identify the bank as its first subgoal, followed by two separate visits to the grocery store, and
                                         visiting First Street is prohibited throughout the task execution. Linear temporal logic [1] provides an
                                         unambiguous target representation for grounding a wide variety of temporal commands.
                                         Prior work of grounding natural language commands to LTL expressions for robotic tasks covered a
                                         limited set of LTL formulas with short lengths and required retraining for every new environment
                                         [2, 3, 4, 5]. In contrast, some recent approaches proposed leveraging LLMs to directly generate robot
                                             ∗
                                                 Equal contribution
                                             1
                                                 Code, datasets and videos are at https://lang2ltl.github.io/


                                         7th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2023), Atlanta, USA.
policies [6, 7, 8, 9]. The LLM output is itself a formal language that must be interpreted by an external
user-defined program. Such approaches cannot solve many complex temporal tasks considered in
this work. Another advantage of using a formal language like LTL is that existing work on automated
planning with LTL specifications provides strong soundness guarantees.
In this paper, we propose Lang2LTL, a system capable of translating language commands to grounded
LTL expressions that are compatible with a range of planning and reinforcement learning tools [10, 11,
12, 13, 14]. Lang2LTL is a modular system that separately tackles referring expression recognition,
grounding these expressions to real-world landmarks, and translating a lifted version of the command
to obtain the grounded LTL specification. This modular design allows Lang2LTL to transfer to novel
environments without retraining, provided with a semantic map.
We formally define five generalization behaviors that a learned language grounding model must
exhibit and comprehensively evaluate Lang2LTL’s generalization performance on a novel dataset
containing 2,125 semantically unique LTL formulas corresponding to 47 LTL formula templates.
Lang2LTL showed the state-of-the-art capabilities of grounding navigational commands in 21 cities
using semantic information from a map database in a zero-shot fashion. Finally, we demonstrated
that a physical robot equipped with Lang2LTL was able to follow 52 semantically diverse language
commands in two different indoor environments provided with semantic maps.

2   Preliminaries
Large Language Models: Autoregressive large language models (LLMs) are producing SoTA
results on a variety of language-based tasks due to their general-purpose language modeling capa-
bilities. LLMs are large-scale transformers [15] pretrained to predict the next token given a context
window [16, 17]. In this work, we used the GPT series models [18, 19] and the T5-Base model [20].
Temporal Task Specification: Linear temporal logic (LTL) [1] has been the formalism of choice
for expressing temporal tasks for a variety of applications, including planning and reinforcement
learning [10, 21, 22, 11, 23, 14], specification elicitation [3, 24, 25, 26, 2], and assessment of robot
actions [27]. The grammar of LTL extends propositional logic with a set of temporal operators
defined as follows:
                               φ := α | ¬φ | φ1 ∨ φ2 | Xφ | φ1 U φ2                                  (1)
An LTL formula φ is interpreted over a discrete-time trace of Boolean propositions, α ∈ AP that
maps an environment state to a Boolean value. φ, φ1 , φ2 are any valid LTL formulas. The operators
¬ (not) and ∨ (or) are identical to propositional logic operators. The temporal operator X (next)
defines the property that Xφ holds if φ holds at the next time step. The binary operator U (until)
specifies an ordering constraint between its two operands. The formula φ1 U φ2 holds if φ1 holds at
least until φ2 first holds, which must happen at the current or a future time. In addition, we use the
following abbreviated operators, ∧ (and), F (finally or eventually), and G (globally or always), that
are derived from the base operators. Fφ specifies that the formula φ must hold at least once in the
future, while Gφ specifies that φ must always hold.
We developed Lang2LTL based on a subset of specification patterns commonly occurring in
robotics [28]. Appendix Table 4 lists the specification patterns and their interpretations.
Planning with Temporal Task Specification: Every LTL formula can be represented as a Büchi
automaton [29, 30] thus providing sufficient memory states to track the task progress. The agent
policy can be computed by any MDP planning algorithm on the product MDP of the automaton and
the environment [10, 21, 22, 11, 12, 13]. Lang2LTL is compatible with any planning or reinforcement
learning algorithm that accepts an LTL formula as task specification.

3   Related Work
Natural Language Robotic Navigation: Early work of language-guided robot task execution focused
on using semantic parsers to ground language commands into abstract representations capable of


                                                   2
informing robot actions [31, 32, 33, 34, 35]. Recent work leverages large pretrained models to
directly generate task plans, either as code [7, 6] or through text [36, 9]. The LLM output is a formal
language that must be interpreted by an external procedure. Thus the external interpreters need to be
expressive and competent for the success of these approaches. In contrast, planners for LTL offer
asymptotic guarantees on the soundness of the resulting robot policies. Finally, LM-Nav [8] is a
modular system that computes a navigational policy by using an LLM to parse landmarks from a
command, then a vision-language model in conjunction with a graph search algorithm to plan over a
pre-constructed semantic map. Note that LM-Nav can only ground commands of the Sequence Visit
category as defined by Menghi et al. [28], while Lang2LTL can interpret 15 temporal tasks.
Translating Language to Formal Specification: Prior approaches are tied to the domain they were
trained on and require retraining with a large amount of data to deploy in a novel domain. Gopalan
et al. [3] relied on commands paired with LTL formulas in a synthetic domain called CleanUp World.
Patel et al. [4] and Wang et al. [5] developed a weakly supervised approach that requires natural
language descriptions along with a satisfying trajectory.
Leveraging LLM to facilitate translation into LTL is an emerging research direction [37, 38, 39, 40].
These approaches relied on string transformations to transform referring expressions in a command
into propositions. In contrast, Lang2LTL explicitly grounds the referring expression to propositional
concepts in the physical environment through a grounding module.
The closest approach to ours, proposed by Berg et al. [2], uses CopyNet [41] architecture to generate
LTL formula structures followed by explicitly replacing the appropriate propositions. We demonstrate
a significant performance improvement over Berg et al. [2]’s approach by leveraging LLMs as well
as training and evaluating on a semantically diverse dataset.

4   Problem Definition
We frame the problem as users providing a natural language command u to a robotic system that
performs navigational tasks in an environment M = ⟨S, A, T ⟩, where S and A represent the states
and actions of the robot, and T describes the transition dynamics of the environment. Our proposed
language grounding system, Lang2LTL, translates the language command u to its equivalent LTL
formula φ and grounds its propositions to real-world landmarks. We assume the robot has access
to its state information S and a semantic database of propositions D = {k : (z, f )}, structured as
key-value pairs. The key k is a unique string identifier for each proposition, and z contains semantic
information about the landmark stored in a serialized format (e.g., JSON). For example, in a street
map domain, the semantic information z includes landmark names, street addresses, amenities, etc.
f : S → {0, 1} is a Boolean valued function that evaluates the truth value of the proposition in a
given state s. Appendix B shows an example entry of this semantic database. Finally, we assume that
the robot has access to an automated planner that accepts an LTL formula and a semantic map as
input and generates a plan over the semantic map as output. We used AP-MDP [12] for this paper.
Consider the example of a drone following a given command within an urban environment depicted
in Figure 2. The environment M encodes the position and the dynamics of the drone. The semantic
database D = {k : (z, f )} includes the landmark identifiers, their semantic information, and a
proximity function.


5   Lang2LTL: Natural Language Grounding

Lang2LTL is a modular system that leverages LLMs to solve the grounding problem by solving the
following subproblems,

      1. Referring Expression Recognition: We identify the set of substrings, {ri }, in the command
         u that refer to Boolean propositions. In this case, {ri } = {“ the store on Main Street”, “the
         bank”}.


                                                  3
Figure 2: Lang2LTL system overview: Green blocks are pretrained or finetuned LLM models. Yellow
blocks are the input or output of the system.

      2. Referring Expression Grounding: Each referring expression ri is mapped to one of the
         proposition identifier strings, k ∈ D, which yields a map {ri → k}. Each proposition is
         also bijectively mapped to a placeholder symbol β from a fixed vocabulary β = {“A”, “B”,
         . . .} by {k ↔ β}. In the example described above, the phrases “the store on Main Street”
         and “the bank” refer to the proposition identifiers walmart and chase, which are in turn
         mapped to the placeholder symbols “A” and “B”.
      3. Lifted Translation: After substituting the referring expressions {ri } by placeholder symbols
         β using the map {ri → β}, we obtain the lifted utterance, “Go to A, but only after visiting
         B.”. The lifted translation module then translates this lifted utterance into a lifted LTL
         formula, φβ = F (A) ∧ (¬A U B).

Finally, we substitute placeholder symbols “A” and “B” by grounded propositions walmart and
chase using the bijection {k ↔ β} to construct the output LTL formula depicted in Figure 2.
We hypothesized that the benefit of solving the translation problem in the lifted domain is two-fold.
First, the output vocabulary size is significantly reduced. Secondly, the lifted formula data can be
sourced from multiple domains, thus providing access to a larger training dataset. Once accurately
translated in the lifted domain, the formulas can be grounded to unseen landmarks in novel domains,
a task at which LLMs excel. We examine the efficacy of this modularization in Section 6.

5.1   Referring Expression Recognition (RER)

Referring expressions are noun phrases, pronouns, and proper names that refer to some individual
objects [42]. In this work, we only consider the task of recognizing noun phrases and proper names.
Referring expressions are entire substrings that refer to a single entity, therefore, they are a superset
of named entities. For example, “the store on Main Street” is the referring expression, but it contains
two named entities, “store” and “Main Street.
Referring expression recognition is generally challenging to all existing pretrained name entity
recognition models, especially without adequate examples for finetuning. We demonstrate high
performance on the RER task by adapting the GPT-4 prompted with a task description and examples
to enable in-context learning. Details of the prompting approach are provided in Appendix D.

5.2   Referring Expression Grounding (REG)

Due to the diversity of natural language, a user can refer to a landmark using many possible referring
expressions. Grounding these expressions into the correct propositions is challenging. We propose
using the embeddings computed by an LLM for measuring similarity. LLMs have been shown to
map semantically similar texts to similar embedding values [43].
Let gembed : r → Rn represent the function that computes an n-dimensional embedding of a text
string using the parameters of the LLM. Following Berg et al. [44], we match the referring expressions
{ri } to the proposition tokens k’s by matching their respective embeddings using cosine similarity.


                                                   4
The embedding of a proposition token, k, is computed by encoding the semantic information, z, of
its corresponding landmark, e.g., street name and amenity. This process is represented formally as
follows,

                                                  gembed (ri )⊤ gembed (z)
                            k ∗ = argmax                                                            (2)
                                  {k:(z,f )}∈D ||gembed (ri )|| ||gembed (z)||


5.3   Lifted Translation

Our lifted translation module operates with a much smaller vocabulary than the number of landmarks
within any given navigation domain. It can also be trained with navigational commands from a wider
variety of data sources. In designing our lifted translation module, we followed the Gopalan et al. [3]
and Patel et al. [4] and represented the prediction target LTL formulas in the prefix format instead of
the infix format. This allows us to unambiguously parse the formulas without requiring parenthesis
matching and shorten the output.
The lifted translation module accepts a lifted utterance as an input and generates a lifted LTL
formula with an output vocabulary of up to 10 operators and five lifted propositions. We evaluated the
following model classes for lifted translation. The implementation details are provided in Appendix E.
Finetuned LLM: We finetuned LLMs using supervised learning following [16]. We tested two LLMs
with supervised finetuning, namely, T5-Base (220M) [20] (using the Hugging Face Transformer
library [45], and the text-davinvi-003 version of GPT-3 using the OpenAI API. The target was an
exact token-wise match of the ground-truth LTL formula.
Prompt LLM: We evaluated prompting the pre-trained GPT-3 [18] and GPT-4 [19] models using the
OpenAI API. We did not vary the prompts throughout a given test set.
Seq2Seq Transformers: We trained an encoder-decoder model based on the transformer architecture
[15] to optimize the per-token cross entropy loss with respect to the ground-truth LTL formula,
together with a token embedding layer to transform the sequence of input tokens into a sequence of
high-dimensional vectors.

6     Evaluation of Language Grounding

We tested the performance of Lang2LTL towards five definitions of generalizing temporal command
interpretation as informed by formal methods in Section 6.1. We evaluated the performance of each
module described in Section 5 in isolation in addition to a demonstration of the integrated system.
Lang2LTL achieved state-of-the-art performance in grounding diverse temporal commands in 21
novel OpenStreetMap regions [46].

6.1   Generalization in Temporal Command Understanding

Utilizing a formal language, such as LTL, to encode temporal task specifications allows us to formally
define five types of generalizing behaviors.
Robustness to Paraphrasing: Consider two utterances, u1 =“ Go to chase”, and u2 =“Visit chase,”
describing the same temporal formula F chase. If the system has only seen u1 at training time, but it
correctly interprets u2 at test time, it is said to demonstrate robustness to paraphrasing. This is the
most common test of generalization we observe in prior works on following language commands
for robotics. A test-train split of the dataset is adequate for testing robustness to paraphrasing, and
we refer to such test sets as utterance holdout. Most prior works [3, 2, 40, 37, 5, 4] demonstrate
robustness to paraphrasing.
Robustness to Substitutions: Assume the system has been trained to interpret the command
corresponding to F chase, and G ¬walmart at training time but has not been trained on a command
corresponding to Fwalmart. If the system correctly interprets the command corresponding to


                                                    5
Fwalmart, it is said to demonstrate robustness to substitution. To test for robustness to substitutions,
any formula in the test set must not have a semantically equivalent formula in the training set. [3]
demonstrated limited robustness to substitutions. The lifted translation approach followed by Berg
et al. [2], NL2TL [40], and Lang2LTL demonstrates robustness to substitutions
Robustness to Vocabulary Shift: Assume the system has been trained to interpret commands
corresponding to Fchase at training time but has never seen any command containing the propositions
walmart. If the system correctly interprets Fwalmart at test time, the system is said to be robust to
vocabulary shift. To test for robustness to vocabulary shift, we identify the set of unique propositions
occurring in every formula in the test and training set. The training set and test set vocabularies
should have an empty intersection in addition to the non-equivalence of every test formula with
respect to the training formula. Methods that explicitly rely on lifted representations show robustness
to vocabulary shifts by design [44, 8, 40]. Our full system evaluations demonstrated robustness to
novel vocabularies in Section 6.5.
Robustness to Unseen Formulas: Assume that all formulas in the training set are transformed by
substituting the propositions in a pre-defined canonical order, e.g., both F chase, and F walmart
are transformed to F a. We refer to these transformed formulas as the formula skeleton. To test for
robustness to unseen formulas, the test set must not share any semantically equivalent formula skeleton
with the training set. We used the built-in equivalency checker from the Spot LTL library [47].
Robustness to Unseen Template Instances: We define this as a special case of robustness to unseen
formulas. If all the formulas in the test and training set are derived from a template-based generator
using a library of pre-defined templates [28, 48], a model may exhibit generalization to different
semantically distinct formula skeletons of the same template; such a model displays robustness to
unseen templates. We refer to the test set whose skeletons vary only as instantiations of templates seen
during training as a formula holdout test set. If the unseen formulas in the test set do not correspond
to any patterns, we refer to it as a type holdout test set.
None of the prior works have evaluated proposed models for robustness to unseen formulas. We
evaluated the lifted translation module of Lang2LTL on both formula and type holdout test sets.
Lang2LTL experienced a degradation of performance as expected, indicating that robustness to
unseen formulas is still an open challenge.




                                (a)                                  (b)
Figure 3: Figure 3a depicts the average accuracies of six lifted translation models on the three
holdout sets over five-fold cross-validation. Figure 3b depicts the average accuracies of the grounded
translation task in the OSM domain.

                                               Table 2: Cross-Domain Evaluation. * for Zero-Shot
Table 1: Proposition Grounding Evaluation
                                                               OSM [44]             CleanUp [3]
   Component          Accuracy
                                               Lang2LTL          49.40 ± 15.49%∗      78.28 ± 1.73%∗
    RE Recognition      98.01 ± 2.08%          CopyNet [44]      45.91 ± 12.70%       2.57%∗
    RE Grounding        98.20 ± 2.30%          RNN-Attn [3]      NA∗                  95.51 ± 0.11%



                                                   6
6.2   Lifted Dataset

We first collected a new parallel corpus of 1,156 natural language commands in English and LTL
formulas with propositional symbols to train and evaluate the lifted translation module. We included
15 LTL templates identified by Menghi et al. [28] and generated 47 unique lifted LTL formula
templates by varying the number of propositions from 1 to 5 when applicable.
To improve the lifted translation module’s Robustness to Substitutions, we permuted the propositions
in utterances and corresponding formulas. The lifted dataset after permutation contains 2,125 unique
LTL formulas and 49,655 English utterances describing them. For a detailed description of the
dataset, please refer to Appendix H.

6.3   Grounded Dataset

Generating Diverse REs: We used GPT-4 to paraphrase landmark names from an open-source
map database, OpenStreetMap (OSM) [46], to more diverse forms of referring expressions (REs) by
providing the semantic information. The prompt used for generating diverse REs is in Appendix C.
We then substituted the symbols in the lifted dataset (Section 6.2) by diverse REs on 100 randomly
sampled lifted utterances for each of the 21 OSM cities. For a list of example commands, please see
Appendix Table 5.

6.4   Component-wise Evaluation

Proposition Grounding: We evaluated the RER and REG modules on the grounded OSM dataset
with 2,100 utterances across 21 cities. The average accuracy and the standard error across the cities for
these modules are depicted in Table 1. The accuracy of RER decreased slightly, and REG performed
uniformly well as we varied the complexity of commands and REs, respectively (Appendix Figure 6).
Lifted Translation: We evaluated the six models presented in Section 5.3 for lifted translation
through five-fold cross-validation on utterance, formula, and type holdout tests. Figure 3a depicts
the average accuracy and the standard deviation across the folds. We note that the two finetuned
LLM models demonstrate the best performance on utterance holdout. We also noted a degradation
of performance on formula and type holdout tests, with the latter being the most challenging across
all models. Finetuned LLM models suffered the worst degradation of performance. Finally, the
addition of type-constrained decoding to T5 significantly improved its performance on the more
challenging formula and type holdout. Due to the lower cost of inference, and the ability to implement
type-constrained decoding to prevent syntax errors, we chose the finetuned T5 model for lifted
translation in our full-system evaluation.

6.5   System Evaluation

We compared the translation accuracy of the full Lang2LTL system on the grounded datasets with the
CopyNet-based translation model [2] and Prompt GPT-4. We retrained CopyNet with an identical
data budget as the Lang2LTL lifted translation model. For Prompt GPT-4, we ensured that there was
at least one example from each formula skeleton in the dataset included in the prompt. Figure 3b
depicts Lang2LTL outperforming both the baselines by a significant margin. Note that due to the
high cost of inference, Prompt GPT-4 was only evaluated on a smaller subset of the test set.

6.6   Cross-Domain Evaluation

We further tested the zero-shot generalization capability of Lang2LTL on two different crowd-sourced
datasets from prior work; the Cleanup World [3] on an analog indoor environment; and the OSM
dataset [2] collected via Amazon Mechanical Turk. Table 2 shows the translation accuracies of
Lang2LTL without any fine-tuning on the target datasets. Note that Lang2LTL outperforms CopyNet
results reported by Berg et al. [2]. We further note that the CleanUp World dataset contains 6 unique


                                                   7
formula skeletons, out of which some were not a part of our lifted dataset. The degraded performance
is expected when the model needs to generalize to unseen formulas.

7   Robot Demonstration

To demonstrate Lang2LTL’s ability to directly execute language commands by interfacing with
automated planning algorithms, we deployed a quadruped module robot, Spot [49] with the AP-
MDP planner [12] in two novel indoor environments. Each environment had eight landmarks (e.g.,
bookshelf, desks, couches, elevators, tables, etc.). We ensured that each environment had multiple
objects of the same type but different attributes. We used Spot’s GraphNav framework to compute a
semantic map of the environment. The AP-MDP [12] planner can directly plan over this semantic
map, given an LTL task specification. Please refer to Appendix J for a complete description of the
task environments.
As a proof-of-concept, we further finetuned the lifted translation module on 120,000 lifted utterances
and formulas formed by sampling pairwise compositions from the lifted database and composed
using conjunctions and disjunctions.
We compared Lang2LTL to Code-as-Policies (CaP) [6], a prominent example of directly grounding
language instructions to robot plans expressed as Python code. We provided Code-as-Policies with
interface functions to input the semantic map and a helper function to automatically navigate between
nodes while having the ability to avoid certain regions. Thus CaP had access to actions at a much
higher level of abstraction than our system. Note that AP-MDP only interfaced with primitive actions
defined as movement between any two neighboring nodes.
Lang2LTL was able to correctly ground 52 commands (40 satisfiable and 12 unsatisfiable commands).
The failure cases were due to incorrect lifted translations. The formal guarantees of the AP-MDP
planner assured that the robot execution was aborted when facing an unsatisfiable specification. By
contrast, CaP was only able to generate acceptable executions for 23 out of 52 commands and did not
explicitly recognize the unsatisfiable commands. CaP demonstrated more robustness to paraphrasing
than our system, which failed on some compositional patterns not in the augmented lifted dataset.

8   Limitations

We observed that Lang2LTL fails at grounding language commands with certain utterance structures,
which suggests that the lifted translation model overfits some training utterances. A list of incorrect
groundings is shown in Appendix Table 2 and Table 3. Finetuning models with larger capacities, e.g.,
T5-Large, may help. In this work, we only consider the task of recognizing noun phrases and proper
names as referring expressions, not pronouns. We can tackle the coreference resolution problem
by first prompting an LLM or using an off-the-shelf model to map pronouns to their corresponding
noun phrases or proper names before the RER module. If there are multiple landmarks of the same
semantic features present in the environment, e.g., two Starbucks, Lang2LTL cannot distinguish the
two and selects one at random. To resolve this ambiguity, the robot needs to actively query the human
user via dialog when necessary.

9   Conclusion

We propose Lang2LTL, a modular system using large language models to ground complex navi-
gational commands for temporal tasks in novel environments of household and city scale without
retraining and generalization tests for language grounding systems. Lang2LTL achieves a grounding
accuracy of 81.83% in 21 unseen cities and outperforms the previous SoTA and an end-to-end prompt
GPT-4 baseline. Any robotic system equipped with position-tracking capability and a semantic map
with landmarks labeled with free-form text can utilize Lang2LTL to interpret natural language from
human users without additional training.


                                                  8
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank Charles Lovering for his feedback that helped improve the draft, Peilin
Yu and Mingxi Jia for helping edit the videos, and Alyssa Sun for developing the web demonstration.
This work is supported by ONR under grant numbers N00014-22-1-2592 and N00014-21-1-2584,
AFOSR under grant number FA9550-21-1-0214, NSF under grant number CNS-2038897, and with
support from Echo Labs and Amazon Robotics.

References
 [1] A. Pnueli. The temporal logic of programs. In 18th Annual Symposium on Foundations of
     Computer Science (sfcs 1977), pages 46–57. ieee, 1977.
 [2] M. Berg, D. Bayazit, R. Mathew, A. Rotter-Aboyoun, E. Pavlick, and S. Tellex. Grounding
     Language to Landmarks in Arbitrary Outdoor Environments. In IEEE International Conference
     on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2020.
 [3] N. Gopalan, D. Arumugam, L. Wong, and S. Tellex. Sequence-to-Sequence Language Ground-
     ing of Non-Markovian Task Specifications. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems,
     Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 2018. doi:10.15607/RSS.2018.XIV.067.
 [4] R. Patel, E. Pavlick, and S. Tellex. Grounding language to non-markovian tasks with no
     supervision of task specifications. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2020.
 [5] C. Wang, C. Ross, Y.-L. Kuo, B. Katz, and A. Barbu. Learning a natural-language to ltl
     executable semantic parser for grounded robotics. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages
     1706–1718. PMLR, 2021.
 [6] J. Liang, W. Huang, F. Xia, P. Xu, K. Hausman, B. Ichter, P. Florence, and A. Zeng. Code as
     policies: Language model programs for embodied control. In arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.07753,
     2022.
 [7] I. Singh, V. Blukis, A. Mousavian, A. Goyal, D. Xu, J. Tremblay, D. Fox, J. Thomason, and
     A. Garg. Progprompt: Generating situated robot task plans using large language models. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2209.11302, 2022.
 [8] D. Shah, B. Osiński, S. Levine, et al. Lm-nav: Robotic navigation with large pre-trained models
     of language, vision, and action. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 492–504. PMLR,
     2022.
 [9] S. S. Raman, V. Cohen, E. Rosen, I. Idrees, D. Paulius, and S. Tellex. Planning with large
     language models via corrective re-prompting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09935, 2022.
[10] M. L. Littman, U. Topcu, J. Fu, C. Isbell, M. Wen, and J. MacGlashan. Environment-independent
     task specifications via gltl. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.04341, 2017.
[11] A. Camacho, R. T. Icarte, T. Q. Klassen, R. A. Valenzano, and S. A. McIlraith. Ltl and
     beyond: Formal languages for reward function specification in reinforcement learning. In IJCAI,
     volume 19, pages 6065–6073, 2019.
[12] Y. Oh, R. Patel, T. Nguyen, B. Huang, E. Pavlick, and S. Tellex. Planning with State Abstractions
     for Non-Markovian Task Specifications. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems,
     Freiburg, Germany, June 2019.
[13] R. T. Icarte, T. Q. Klassen, R. Valenzano, and S. A. McIlraith. Reward machines: Exploiting
     reward function structure in reinforcement learning. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research,
     73:173–208, 2022.
[14] J. X. Liu, A. Shah, E. Rosen, M. Jia, G. Konidaris, and S. Tellex. Skill transfer for temporally-
     extended task specifications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.05096, 2022.


                                                  9
[15] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez, Ł. Kaiser, and
     I. Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information processing systems,
     30, 2017.
[16] A. Radford, K. Narasimhan, T. Salimans, I. Sutskever, et al. Improving language understanding
     by generative pre-training. 2018.
[17] A. Radford, J. Wu, R. Child, D. Luan, D. Amodei, I. Sutskever, et al. Language models are
     unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI blog, 1(8):9, 2019.
[18] T. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. D. Kaplan, P. Dhariwal, A. Neelakantan,
     P. Shyam, G. Sastry, A. Askell, S. Agarwal, A. Herbert-Voss, G. Krueger, T. Henighan, R. Child,
     A. Ramesh, D. Ziegler, J. Wu, C. Winter, C. Hesse, M. Chen, E. Sigler, M. Litwin, S. Gray,
     B. Chess, J. Clark, C. Berner, S. McCandlish, A. Radford, I. Sutskever, and D. Amodei. Lan-
     guage models are few-shot learners. In H. Larochelle, M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M. Balcan, and
     H. Lin, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 1877–
     1901. Curran Associates, Inc., 2020. URL https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_
     files/paper/2020/file/1457c0d6bfcb4967418bfb8ac142f64a-Paper.pdf.
[19] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2023.
[20] C. Raffel, N. Shazeer, A. Roberts, K. Lee, S. Narang, M. Matena, Y. Zhou, W. Li, and P. J.
     Liu. Exploring the limits of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. Journal
     of Machine Learning Research, 21(140):1–67, 2020. URL http://jmlr.org/papers/v21/
     20-074.html.
[21] R. T. Icarte, T. Klassen, R. Valenzano, and S. McIlraith. Using reward machines for high-level
     task specification and decomposition in reinforcement learning. In International Conference on
     Machine Learning, pages 2107–2116. PMLR, 2018.
[22] G. De Giacomo, L. Iocchi, M. Favorito, and F. Patrizi. Foundations for restraining bolts: Rein-
     forcement learning with ltlf/ldlf restraining specifications. In Proceedings of the international
     conference on automated planning and scheduling, volume 29, pages 128–136, 2019.
[23] A. Shah, S. Li, and J. Shah. Planning with uncertain specifications (puns). IEEE Robotics and
     Automation Letters, 5(2):3414–3421, 2020.
[24] A. Shah, P. Kamath, J. A. Shah, and S. Li. Bayesian inference of temporal task specifications
     from demonstrations. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 31, 2018.
[25] M. Vazquez-Chanlatte, S. Jha, A. Tiwari, M. K. Ho, and S. Seshia. Learning task specifications
     from demonstrations. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31, pages 5368–
     5378. 2018.
[26] J. Kim, C. Muise, A. Shah, S. Agarwal, and J. Shah. Bayesian inference of linear temporal
     logic specifications for contrastive explanations. In IJCAI, 2019.
[27] A. Shah, S. Wadhwania, and J. Shah. Interactive robot training for non-markov tasks. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2003.02232, 2020.
[28] C. Menghi, C. Tsigkanos, P. Pelliccione, C. Ghezzi, and T. Berger. Specification patterns for
     robotic missions. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 47(10):2208–2224, oct 2021.
     ISSN 1939-3520. doi:10.1109/TSE.2019.2945329.
[29] M. Y. Vardi. An automata-theoretic approach to linear temporal logic. Logics for concurrency,
     pages 238–266, 1996.
[30] R. Gerth, D. Peled, M. Y. Vardi, and P. Wolper. Simple on-the-fly automatic verification of
     linear temporal logic. In Protocol Specification, Testing and Verification XV: Proceedings of
     the Fifteenth IFIP WG6. 1 International Symposium on Protocol Specification, Testing and
     Verification, Warsaw, Poland, June 1995, pages 3–18. Springer, 1996.


                                                 10
[31] M. Macmahon. Marco: A modular architecture for following route instructions. AAAI Workshop
     - Technical Report, 01 2005.

[32] M. MacMahon, B. Stankiewicz, and B. Kuipers. Walk the talk: Connecting language, knowledge,
     and action in route instructions. In Proceedings of the 21st National Conference on Artificial
     Intelligence - Volume 2, AAAI’06, page 1475–1482. AAAI Press, 2006. ISBN 9781577352815.

[33] D. L. Chen and R. J. Mooney. Learning to interpret natural language navigation instructions from
     observations. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
     AAAI’11, page 859–865. AAAI Press, 2011.

[34] J. Kim and R. Mooney. Unsupervised PCFG induction for grounded language learning with
     highly ambiguous supervision. In Proceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empirical
     Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning,
     pages 433–444, Jeju Island, Korea, July 2012. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL
     https://aclanthology.org/D12-1040.

[35] Y. Artzi and L. Zettlemoyer. Weakly supervised learning of semantic parsers for mapping
     instructions to actions. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 1:49–62,
     2013. doi:10.1162/tacl a 00209. URL https://aclanthology.org/Q13-1005.

[36] M. Ahn, A. Brohan, N. Brown, Y. Chebotar, O. Cortes, B. David, C. Finn, K. Gopalakrishnan,
     K. Hausman, A. Herzog, et al. Do as i can, not as i say: Grounding language in robotic
     affordances. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.01691, 2022.

[37] J. Pan, G. Chou, and D. Berenson. Data-efficient learning of natural language to linear temporal
     logic translators for robot task specification. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08006, 2023.

[38] M. Cosler, C. Hahn, D. Mendoza, F. Schmitt, and C. Trippel. nl2spec: Interactively translating
     unstructured natural language to temporal logics with large language models. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2303.04864, 2023.

[39] F. Fuggitti and T. Chakraborti. NL2LTL – a python package for converting natural language (NL)
     instructions to linear temporal logic (LTL) formulas. In AAAI, 2023. System Demonstration.

[40] Y. Chen, R. Gandhi, Y. Zhang, and C. Fan. Nl2tl: Transforming natural languages to temporal
     logics using large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.07766, 2023.

[41] J. Gu, Z. Lu, H. Li, and V. O. Li. Incorporating copying mechanism in sequence-to-
     sequence learning. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for
     Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1631–1640, Berlin, Germany,
     Aug. 2016. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:10.18653/v1/P16-1154. URL
     https://aclanthology.org/P16-1154.

[42] J. Lyons. Semantics: Volume 2, volume 2. Cambridge university press, 1977.

[43] A. Neelakantan, T. Xu, R. Puri, A. Radford, J. M. Han, J. Tworek, Q. Yuan, N. Tezak, J. W.
     Kim, C. Hallacy, et al. Text and code embeddings by contrastive pre-training. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2201.10005, 2022.

[44] M. Berg, D. Bayazit, R. Mathew, A. Rotter-Aboyoun, E. Pavlick, and S. Tellex. Grounding
     Language to Landmarks in Arbitrary Outdoor Environments. In IEEE International Conference
     on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2020.

[45] T. Wolf, L. Debut, V. Sanh, J. Chaumond, C. Delangue, A. Moi, P. Cistac, T. Rault, R. Louf,
     M. Funtowicz, J. Davison, S. Shleifer, P. von Platen, C. Ma, Y. Jernite, J. Plu, C. Xu, T. L.
     Scao, S. Gugger, M. Drame, Q. Lhoest, and A. M. Rush. Transformers: State-of-the-art
     natural language processing. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods
     in Natural Language Processing: System Demonstrations, pages 38–45, Online, Oct. 2020.


                                                 11
     Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
     2020.emnlp-demos.6.
[46] OpenStreetMap contributors. Planet dump retrieved from https://planet.osm.org . https:
     //www.openstreetmap.org, 2017.

[47] A. Duret-Lutz, E. Renault, M. Colange, F. Renkin, A. G. Aisse, P. Schlehuber-Caissier,
     T. Medioni, A. Martin, J. Dubois, C. Gillard, and H. Lauko. From Spot 2.0 to Spot 2.10:
     What’s new? In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Computer Aided Verifica-
     tion (CAV’22), volume 13372 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 174–187. Springer,
     Aug. 2022. doi:10.1007/978-3-031-13188-2 9.
[48] M. B. Dwyer, G. S. Avrunin, and J. C. Corbett. Patterns in property specifications for finite-state
     verification. In Proceedings of the 21st international conference on Software engineering, pages
     411–420, 1999.
[49] Boston Dynamics. Spot® - the agile mobile robot. https://www.bostondynamics.com/
     products/spot.




                                                  12
Appendix A        Specification Patterns



We developed Lang2LTL to ground navigational commands to LTL formulas. We started with the
catalog of robotic mission-relevant LTL patterns for robotic missions by Menghi et al. [28]. We
adopted 15 templates that are relevant to robot navigation and modified some of their patterns to
semantically match our requirements. The complete list of pattern descriptions and the corresponding
LTL templates is in Table 4. Note that we use some additional abbreviated temporal operators,
specifically “Weak until” W, and the “Strong release” M in terms of standard operators, i.e.,
a W b = a U (b ∨ Ga), and a M b = b U (a ∧ b).




Appendix B        Semantic Information from OpenStreetMap Database



We show an example entry of the semantic dataset as follows,




{
     " Jiaho supermarket " : {
           " addr : housenumber " : " 692 " ,
           " shop " : " supermarket " ,
           " opening_hours " : " Mo - Su 08:00 -20:00 " ,
           " phone " : " 6173389788 " ,
           " addr : postcode " : " 02111 " ,
           " addr : street " : " Washington Street "
     },
     ... ,
}




Appendix C Implementation Details about Referring Expression Generation



We prompt the GPT-4 model for paraphrasing landmarks with corresponding OSM databases. For
each landmark, three referring expressions are generated. The prompt for generating referring
expressions by paraphrasing is as follows,


                                                13
Use natural language to describe the landmark provided in a python dictionary form in a short phrase.

Landmark dictionary:
’Fortuna Cafe’: {’addr:housenumber’: ’711’, ’cuisine’: ’chinese’, ’amenity’: ’restaurant’, ’addr:city’:
’Seattle’, ’addr:postcode’: ’98104’, ’source’: ’King County GIS;data.seattle.gov’, ’addr:street’:
’South King Street’}
Natural language:
Chinese cafe on South King Street

Landmark dictionary:
’Seoul Tofu House & Korean BBQ’: {’addr:housenumber’: ’516’, ’cuisine’: ’korean’,
’amenity’: ’restaurant’, ’addr:city’: ’Seattle’, ’addr:postcode’: ’98104’, ’source’: ’King
County GIS;data.seattle.gov’, ’addr:street’: ’6th Avenue South’}
Natural language:
Seoul Tofu House

Landmark dictionary:
’AI Video’: {’shop’: ’electronics’}
Natural language:
AI Video selling electronics

...

Landmark dictionary:
’Dochi’: {’addr:housenumber’: ’604’, ’cuisine’: ’donut’, ’amenity’: ’cafe’}

Natural language:
a cafe selling donut named Dochi

Landmark dictionary:
’AVA Theater District’: {’addr:housenumber’: ’45’, ’building’: ’residential’, ’building:levels’: ’30’}
Natural language:
AVA residential building

Landmark dictionary:
’HI Boston’: {’operator’: ’Hosteling International’, ’smoking’: ’no’, ’wheelchair’: ’yes’, ’tourism’:
’hostel’}
Natural language:
HI Boston

Landmark dictionary:




Appendix D Implementation Details about Referring Expression Recognition




The prompt for referring expression recognition is as follows,


                                                 14
Your task is to repeat exact strings from the given utterance which possibly refer to certain
propositions.

Utterance: move to red room
Propositions: red room

Utterance: visit Cutler Majestic Theater
Propositions: Cutler Majestic Theater

Utterance: robot c move to big red room and then move to green area
Propositions: big red room | green area

Utterance: you have to visit Panera Bread on Beacon Street, four or more than four times
Propositions: Panera Bread on Beacon Street

Utterance: go to Cutler Majestic Theater at Emerson College on Tremont Street, exactly
three times
Propositions: Cutler Majestic Theater at Emerson College on Tremont Street

...

Utterance: make sure you never visit St. James Church, a Christian place of worship on
Harrison Avenue, Dunkin’ Donuts, Thai restaurant Montien, New Saigon Sandwich, or Stuart St @
Tremont St
Propositions: St. James Church, a Christian place of worship on Harrison Avenue | Dunkin’ Donuts |
Thai restaurant Montien | New Saigon Sandwich | Stuart St @ Tremont St

Utterance: move the robot through yellow region or small red room and then to large green
room
Propositions: yellow region | small red room | large green room

Utterance:
The results of using this prompt to recognize referring expressions with spatial relations are shown in
Table 6.



Appendix E        Implementation Details about Lifted Translation

E.1   Fintuned T5-Base

For finetuning the T5-Base model, we set the batch size to 40, the learning rate to 10−4 , and the
weight decay to 10−2 . We ran training for 10 epochs and picked the best-performing one for reporting
results.



E.2   Finetuned GPT-3

The per specification type accuracies and the accuracies for varying number of propositions in the
formula while testing the finetuned GPT-3 model on the utterance holdout is depicted in Figure 3.
The finetuned GPT-3 model achieves high accuracies across formula types and varying numbers of
propositions. It shows the benefit of having a large high-quality dataset of natural language commands
representing diverse LTL formulas. All previous works also used utterance holdout as their testing
methodology, but their training and test sets contain significantly fewer unique LTL formulas.


                                                  15
E.3   Prompt GPT-4

The prompt for end-to-end GPT-4 is as follows,
 Your task is to translate English utterances into linear temporal logic (LTL) formulas.

 Utterance: visit b
 LTL: F b

 Utterance: eventually reach b and h
 LTL: & F b F h

 Utterance: go to h a and b

 LTL: & F h & F a F b

 Utterance: proceed to reach h at the next time instant only and only if you see b
 LTL: G e b X h

 Utterance: wait at b till you see h
 LTL: U b h

 Utterance: go to h in the very next time instant whenever you see b
 LTL: G i b X h

 Utterance:


E.4   Prompt GPT-3

The prompt for end-to-end GPT-3 is the same as the one we used for Prompt GPT-4.



E.5   Seq2Seq Transformer

We constructed and trained a transformer model following [15]. More specifically, we built the
model’s encoder with three attention layers and decoder with three layers, and we used 512 as the
embedding size and 8 as the number of attention heads. For training, we adapted batched training
with a batch size equal to 128, learning rate equal to 10−4 , and dropout ratio equal to 0.1; the training
process runs for 10 epochs, and we picked the best-performing checkpoint for baseline comparison.


E.6   Type Constrained Decoding (TCD)

Constrained decoding has been used in generating formal specifications for eliminating syntactically
invalid outputs. Due to the sampling nature of NN-based models, generated tokens from the output
layer can result in syntactical errors that can be detected on the fly, and type-constrained decoding
solves it by forcing the model to only generate tokens following the correct grammar rule. By
eliminating syntax errors, it also improves the overall performance of the system.
In practice, type-constrained decoding is implemented at each step of the decoding loop: first
checking the validity of the output token, then appending the valid token or masking the invalid, and
re-generating a new token according to the probability distribution after masking. In addition, we
design an algorithm to simultaneously enforce the length limitation and syntactical rule by parsing
partial formulas into binary trees. Beyond a given maximum height of the tree, the model is forced
only to generate propositions but not operators.


                                                   16
Appendix F        Implementation Details about Code as Policies




We designed two prompts for reproducing Code as Policies: one for code generation and the other for
parsing landmarks. The code generation prompt is expected to generate an executable Python script
that calls the goto loc() function for traversing through the environment and psrse loc() function to
ground referring expressions to landmarks, where the landmark resolution prompt is used. The code
generation prompt for graph search is as follows,

# Python 2D robot navigation script

import random
from utils import goto loc, parse loc

# make the robot go to wooden desk.
target loc = parse loc(‘wooden desk’)
goto loc(target loc)
# go to brown desk and then white desk.
target loc 1 = parse loc(‘brown desk’)
target loc 2 = parse loc(‘white desk’)
target locs = [target loc 1, target loc 2]
for target loc in target locs:
  goto loc(target loc)
# head to doorway, but visit white kitchen counter before that.
target loc 1 = parse loc(‘white kitchen counter’)
target loc 2 = parse loc(‘doorway’)
target locs = [target loc 1, target loc 2]
for target loc in target locs:
  goto loc(target loc)
# avoid white table while going to grey door.
target loc = parse loc(‘grey door’)
avoid loc = parse loc(‘white table’)
target locs = [target loc]
avoid locs = [avoid loc]
for loc in target locs:
  goto loc(loc, avoid locs=avoid locs)
# either go to steel gate or doorway
target loc 1 = parse loc(‘steel gate’)
target loc 2 = parse loc(‘doorway’)
target locs = [target loc 1, target loc 2]
target loc = random.choice(target locs)
goto loc(target loc)

...

# go to doorway three times
target loc = parse loc(‘doorway’)
for in range(3):
  goto loc(target loc)
  random loc = target loc
  while random loc == target loc:
    random loc = random.choice(locations)
  goto loc(random loc)


                                                 17
The landmark resolution prompt is as follows,
 # Python parsing phrases to locations script

locations = [‘bookshelf’, ‘desk A’, ‘table’, ‘desk B’, ‘doorway’, ‘kitchen counter’, ‘couch’,
‘door’]
semantic info = {
  “bookshelf”: {“material”: “wood”, “color”: “brown”},
  “desk A”: {“material”: “wood”, “color”: “brown”},
  “desk B”: {“material”: “metal”, ‘color’: “white”},
  “doorway”: {},
  “kitchen counter”: {“color”: “white”},
  “couch”: {“color”: “blue”, “brand”: “IKEA”},
  “door”: {“material”: “steel”, “color”: “grey”},
  “table”: {“color”: “white”},
  }
# wooden brown bookshelf
ret val = ‘bookshelf’

...

locations = [‘bookshelf’, ‘desk A’, ‘table’, ‘desk B’, ‘doorway’, ‘kitchen counter’, ‘couch’,
‘door’]
semantic info = {
  “bookshelf”: {“material”: “wood”, “color”: “brown”},
  “desk A”: {“material”: “wood”, “color”: “brown”},
  “desk B”: {“material”: “metal”, ‘color’: “white”},
  “doorway”: {},
  “kitchen counter”: {“color”: “white”},
  “couch”: {“color”: “blue”, “brand”: “IKEA”},
  “door”: {“material”: “steel”, “color”: “grey”},
  “table”: {“color”: “white”},
  }
# blue IKEA couch
ret val = ‘couch’



Appendix G         Implementation Details about Grounded Translation


G.1   CopyNet

For reproducing [44], we trained the CopyNet baseline with our grounded dataset preprocessed as its
required format. To make a fair comparison on generalization ability, the CopyNet model has only
seen utterance-formula pairs from the Boston subset, and the evaluation is run on grounded datasets
of the rest 21 cities. For training CopyNet, we followed closely the instructions of the original paper
and used the exact same LSTM model structure and pre-computed glove embedding for landmark
resolution. On the hyperparameters, we set the embedding size to 128, the hidden size to 256, the
learning rate to 10−3 , and the batch size to 100.



G.2   Prompt GPT-4

The prompt for end-to-end GPT-4 is as follows. While we tried including a landmark list in the
prompt, it was removed in the final version because we observed empirically that Prompt GPT-


                                                  18
                                     Table 1: Dataset Comparison
                                       Lang2LTL Lifted CleanUp World             NL2TL            Wang et al. [5]
Number of datapoints                    49,655               3,382               39,367           6,556
Unique formula skeletons                47                   4                   605              45
#Propositions (min, max, mean)          (1, 5, 3.79)         (1, 3, 1.85)        (1, 7, 2.86)     (1, 4, 2.01)
Formula Length (min, max, mean)         (2, 67, 18.89)       (2, 7, 4.77)        (1, 13, 5.98)    (3, 7, 4.48)


4 achieved better performance without explicitly giving a list of landmarks during prompt engineering.
 Your task is to first find referred landmarks from a given list then use them as propositions to translate
 English utterances to linear temporal logic (LTL) formulas.

 Utterance: visit Panera Bread sandwich fast food on Stuart Street
 LTL: F panera bread

 Utterance: eventually reach Wang Theater, and The Kensington apartments
 LTL: & F wang theater F the kensington

 ...

 Utterance: make sure that you have exactly three separate visits to Seybolt Park
 LTL: M & seybolt park F & ! seybolt park F & seybolt park F & ! seybolt park F seybolt park | !
 seybolt park G | seybolt park G | ! seybolt park G | seybolt park G | ! seybolt park G | seybolt park
 G ! seybolt park

 Utterance:

Appendix H         Dataset Details
H.1    Quantifying diversity of temporal commands

We quantify the diversity of the temporal commands a system is tested on using the temporal formula
skeletons in the evaluation corpus of commands. We propose that each novel dataset should be
characterized along the following dimensions, and as an example, we provide the respective values
for the Lang2LTL dataset (lifted and grounded OSM dataset) described in Section 6.4 of the main
paper.

       1. Number of semantically unique formulas: 47
       2. Number of propositions per formula: minimum: 1, maximum: 5, average: 3.79
       3. Length of formulas: minimum: 2, maximum: 67. average: 18.89
       4. Vocabulary size (for grounded datasets): 1757
       5. Linguistic diversity of utterances: self-BLEU score: 0.85

Table 1 compares our proposed lifted dataset and other datasets proposed in prior work.

Appendix I        Detailed Result Analysis on Lifted Translation

We further analyzed the results for each model and holdout type for the lifted translation problem. In
particular, we computed the accuracies per each formula type and the number of unique propositions
required to construct the target formula. This analysis provides insights into the sensitivity of the
models to particular templates and formula lengths.
The accuracies of each model and holdout type categorized by formula types are depicted in Figure
1. We observe that for both the finetuned models (Finetuned T5 and Finetuned GPT-3), the model


                                                   19
achieves high accuracies across various formula types for Utterance Holdout. Note that the perfor-
mance across types is more uniform for the Finetuned GPT-3 than the Finetuned T5-Base model.
Next, we note that Prompt GPT-4 achieves better accuracies as compared to Prompt GPT-3 across all
evaluations.
We observe that the performance of the finetuned models is more unbalanced across different formula
types for the Formula Holdout test case. In comparison, Prompt GPT models achieve non-zero
accuracies across all formula types. Once again, Prompt GPT-4 outperforms Prompt GPT-3. We
note that adding type-constrained decoding to Finetuned T5-Base during inference only marginally
improved Utterance Holdout, but significantly improved Formula and Type Holdout, which implies
Finetuned T5-Base model is more likely to produce syntactically incorrect output when the grounding
formula instance or type have not seen during training.
Finally, we note that only the prompt GPT models achieve meaningful accuracies in the Type Holdout
scenarios. However, even in Type Holdout, the accuracies are concentrated on formula types that
only had short lengths or shared subformulas with types seen during training. We can conclude that
Formula and Type Holdout remain challenging paradigms of generation and an open problem for
automated translation of language commands into formal specifications.




       Figure 1: The accuracies per grounding formula types of six lifted translation models

Next, we repeated the above analysis but categorized accuracies by the number of unique propositions
that appear within a formula. The results are depicted in Figure 2.




    Figure 2: The accuracies per number of unique propositions of six lifted translation models

Here we note that in the Utterance Holdout test, the finetuned models demonstrated balanced perfor-
mance across the dataset, whereas both prompt GPT models demonstrated degraded performance
when the number of unique propositions in the formula was increasing. Subsequently, the degraded
performance on longer formulas was apparent even within the Formula and Type holdout domains.
In contrast, the three finetuned models performed better for longer formulas in Formula Holdout.
We hypothesize that this is because the finetuned models were more able to generalize to different
formula lengths of the same template (in particular, the templates that required temporal ordering


                                                20
constraints to be encoded) as compared to the prompt completion-based approaches. In addition,
there are more samples in the training set for longer formulas due to permutations of propositions.
As finetuning an LLM on the target task produced the best results for Utterance Holdout, we further
analyzed the cause of errors for the instances where the lifted translation was incorrect. We categorize
the errors as follows:

      1. Syntax Errors: The formula returned by the lifted translation module was not a valid LTL
         formula.
      2. Misclassifed formula type: The lifted translation module returns an identifiable but incor-
         rect formula type that did not correspond to the input command.
      3. Incorrect propositions: The returned formula was of the correct formula type but had the
         incorrect number of propositions.
      4. Incorrect permutation: The formula was of the correct template class and had the right
         number of propositions, but the propositions were in the wrong location within the formula.
      5. Unknown template The returned formula was a valid LTL formula but did not belong to
         any known formula types.

Figure 3 to Figure 5 depict the relative frequencies of the error cases as a pie chart for the three
finetuned models. Note that returning unknown formula templates with the correct syntax was the
most common cause of error in the lifted translation based on all finetuned models.




Figure 3: Error frequencies of Figure 4: Error frequencies of Figure 5: Error frequencies of
Finetuned T5-Base with TCD     Finetuned T5-Base              Finetuned GPT-3

Since Finetuned GPT-3 achieves the best generalization across formula types, and type-constrained
decoding (TCD) during inference significantly improves the translation accuracies for unseen formula
instances and types, the combination of large language models and TCD is by far the best approach
for grounding language commands for temporal tasks.

Appendix J        Robot Demonstration
J.1   Indoor Environment #1

The semantic information of landmarks in the first household environment is as follows,
{
      " bookshelf " : {
           " material " : " wood " ,
           " color " : " brown "
      },
      " desk A " :{
           " material " : " wood " ,
           " color " : " brown "
      },
      " desk B " : {
           " material " : " metal " ,
           " color " : " white "
      },


                                                  21
      " doorway " : {} ,
      " kitchen counter " : {
           " color " : " white "
      },
      " couch " : {
           " color " : " blue " ,
           " brand " : " IKEA "
      },
      " door " : {
           " material " : " steel " ,
           " color " : " grey "
      },
      " table " : {
           " color " : " white "
      }
}

Natural language commands used to test our system Lang2LTL and Code as Polices [6] are shown in
Table 2.

J.2   Indoor Environment #2

The semantic information of landmarks in the second household environment is as follows,
{
      " hallway A " : {
           " decoration " : " painting "
      },
      " hallway B " : {
           " decoration " : " none "
      },
      " table A " : {
           " location " : " kitchen " ,
           " material " : " metal " ,
           " color " : " blue "
      },
      " table B " : {
           " location " : " atrium " ,
           " material " : " metal " ,
           " color " : " white "
      },
      " classroom " : {
           " door " : [ " glass " , " grey " ]
      },
      " elevator " : {
           " color " : " purple "
      },
      " staircase " : {} ,
      " front desk " : {} ,
      " office " : {
           " door " : [ " wood " , " yellow " ]
      },
}

Natural language commands used to test our system Lang2LTL and Code as Polices [6] are shown in
Table 3.




                                                  22
         (a) RER Accuracy vs. Command Complexity    (b) REG Accuracy vs. RE Complexity
Figure 6: Figure 6a shows the accuracies of the referring expression recognition (RER) module as
the complexity of commands (measured by the number of referring expressions in the command)
increases. Figure 6b shows the accuracy of the referring expression grounding (REG) module as the
complexity of REs (measured by string length) increases.




                                               23
                  Table 2: Commands for Robot Demonstration in Indoor Environment #1
Navigational Command                                             Lang2LTL Result                  Code as Policies Result
1. go to brown bookshelf, metal desk, wooden desk,
kitchen counter, and the blue couch in any order                 success                          success

2. move to grey door, then bookrack, then brown desk,
then counter, then white desk                                    success                          success

3. visit brown wooden desk but only after bookshelf              success                          misunderstand the task

4. go from brown bookshelf to white metal desk
and only visit each landmark one time                            success                          misunderstand the task

5. go to brown wooden desk exactly once
and do not visit brown desk before bookshelf                     success                          inexecutable

6. go to white desk at least three times                         success                          inexecutable

7. go to wooden bookshelf at least five times                    success                          success

8. visit bookshelf at most three times                           success                          success

9. visit counter at most 5 times                                 success                          success

10. go to wooden desk exactly three times                        success                          misunderstand the task

11. move to brown wooden desk exactly 5 times                    success                          inexecutable

12. go to doorway exactly two times,
in addition always avoid the table                               success                          success

13. go to brown desk only after visiting bookshelf,
in addition go to brown desk only after visiting white desk      success                          misunderstand the task

14. visit wooden desk exactly two times,
in addition do not go to wooden desk before bookrack             success                          inexecutable

15. visit wooden desk at least two times,
in addition do not go to wooden desk before bookshelf            success                          inexecutable

16. visit the blue IKEA couch, in addition
never go to the big steel door                                   success                          success

17. visit white kitchen counter then go to brown desk,
in addition never visit white table                              success                          success

18. go to the grey door, and only then go to the bookshelf,
in addition always avoid the table                               success                          misunderstand the task

19. go to kitchen counter then wooden desk,
in addition after going to counter, you must avoid white table   success                          misunderstand the task

20. Go to bookshelf, alternatively go to metal desk              success                          misunderstand the task
21. Go to counter, alternatively go to metal desk                success                          misunderstand the task
22. Go to the counter, but never visit the counter               unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

23. do not go to the wooden desk until bookshelf,
and do not go to bookshelf until wooden desk                     unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

24. go to brown desk exactly once,
in addition go to brown desk at least twice                      unsatisfiable. abort correctly   misunderstand the task

25. find the kitchen counter, in addition avoid the doorway      unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

26. move to couch exactly twice,
in addition pass by counter at most once                         unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

27. navigate to the counter then the brown desk,
in addition after going to the counter, you must avoid doorway   unsatisfiable. abort correctly   misunderstand the task

28. Visit the counter at least 2 times and at most 5 times       incorrect grounding. OOD         inexecutable

29. visit counter at least six times                             incorrect grounding. OOD         success

30. either go to bookshelf then desk A, or go to couch           incorrect grounding. OOD         misunderstand the task




                                                                 24
                  Table 3: Commands for Robot Demonstration in Indoor Environment #2
Navigational Command                                                                                    Lang2LTL Result                  Code as Policies Result
1. navigate to the office with the wooden door, the classroom with
glass door and the table in the atrium, kitchen counter,
and the blue couch in any order                                                                         success                          success

2. go down the hallway decorated with paintings,
then find the kitchen table, then front desk, then staircase                                            success                          success

3. navigate to classroom but do not visit classroom
before the white table in atrium                                                                        success                          misunderstand the task

4. only visit classroom once, and do not visit classroom
until you visit elevator first                                                                          success                          success

5. Go to the staircase, front desk and the white table in the atrium
in that exact order. You are not permitted to revisit any of these locations                            success                          inexecutable

6. go to the purple elevator at least five times                                                        success                          inexecutable
7. visit the kitchen table at most three times                                                          success                          success
8. navigate to the classroom exactly four times                                                         success                          inexecutable
9. go to the front desk then the yellow office door,
in addition do not visit the classroom with glass door                                                  success                          success

10. go to the stairs then the front desk,
in addition avoid purple elevator                                                                       success                          success

11. move to elevator then front desk,
in addition avoid staircase                                                                             success                          success

12. go to front desk exactly two times,
in addition avoid elevator                                                                              success                          inexecutable

13. Go to elevator, alternatively go to staircase                                                       success                          misunderstand the task
14. Go to the front desk at least two different occasions,
in addition you are only permitted to visit the staircase at most once                                  success                          misunderstand the task

15. Visit the elevator exactly once, in addition visit the front desk
on at least 2 separate occasions                                                                        success                          inexecutable

16. Go to the office, in addition avoid visiting the elevator and the classroom                         success                          success
17. Visit the front desk, in addition
you are not permitted to visit elevator and staircase                                                   success                          success

18. Visit the purple door elevator, then go to the front desk
and then go to the kitchen table,
in addition you can never go to the elevator once you’ve seen the front desk                            success                          inexecutable

19. Visit the front desk then the white table, in addition if you visit
the staircase you must avoid the elevator after that                                                    success                          inexecutable

20. Go to the classroom with glass door,
but never visit the classroom with glass door                                                           unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

21. do not go to the white table until classroom,
and do not go to the classroom until white table                                                        unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

22. go to kitchen table exactly once,
in addition go to kitchen table at least twice                                                          unsatisfiable. abort correctly   misunderstand the task

23. find the office, in addition avoid visiting the front desk
and the classroom and the table in atrium                                                               unsatisfiable. abort correctly   stop execution correctly

24. move to the kitchen table exactly twice,
in addition pass by hallway decorated by paintings at most once                                         unsatisfiable. abort correctly   misunderstand the task

25. navigate to the kitchen table then the front desk,
in addition after going to the kitchen table,
you must avoid hallway decorated with paintings                                                         unsatisfiable. abort correctly   misunderstand the task

26. Go to the front desk at least 4 different occasions,
additionally, you are only permitted to visit the staircase at most once                                incorrect grounding. OOD         inexecutable

27. Visit the front desk, additionally if you visit the elevator you must visit the office after that   incorrect grounding. OOD         success

28. Visit the front desk, additionally you visit
the elevator you must visit the office after that
the white table and the classroom                                                                       incorrect grounding. OOD         misunderstand the task




                                                                          25
                                 Table 4: Specification Patterns for Lang2LTL
Specification Type           Explanation                                                      Formula
                                                                                              Vn
Visit                        Visit a set of waypoints {p1 , p2 . . . , pn } in any order        i=1 F pi

Sequence Visit               Visit a set of waypoints {p1 , p2 . . . , pn }, but ensure       F(p1 ∧ F(p2 ∧ . . . ∧ F(pn )) . . .)
                             that p2 is visited at least once after visiting p1 , and so on
                                                                                                           Vn−1
Ordered Visit                Visit a set of waypoints {p1 , p2 . . . , pn }, but ensure       F(pn ) ∧      i=1 (¬pi+1 U pi )
                             that p2 is never visited before visiting p1
                                                                                                             Vn−1
Strictly Ordered Visit       Visit a set of waypoints {p1 , p2 . . . , pn }, but ensure       F(pn )   ∧         i=1 (¬pi+1 U pi ) ∧
                             that p2 is never visited before visiting p1 , additionally,      Vn−1
                                                                                                    (¬p i U (p i U (¬pi U pi+1 )))
                                                                                                i=1
                             ensure that p1 is only visited on a single distinct visit
                             before completing the rest of the task
                                                                                              Vn
Patrolling                   Visit a set of wwaypoints {p1 , p2 . . . , pn } infinitely         i=1 GFpi
                             often

Bound Delay                  If and only if the proposition a is ever observed, then the      G(a ↔ Xb)
                             proposition b must hold at the very next time step

Delayed Reaction             If the proposition a is ever observed, then its response is      G(a → Fb)
                             to ensure that the proposition b holds at some point in the
                             future

Prompt Reaction              If the proposition a is ever observed, then the proposition      G(a → Xb)
                             b must hold at the very next time step

Wait                         The proposition a must hold till the proposition b becomes       aWb
                             true, and b may never hold

Past Avoidance               The proposition a must not become true until the proposi-        ¬a W b
                             tion b holds first. b may never hold

Future Avoidance             Once the proposition a is observed to be true, the propo-        G(a → XG¬b)
                             sition b must never be allowed to become true from that
                             point onwards.
                                                                                              Vn
Global Avoidance             The set of propositions {p1 , p2 . . . , pn } must never be        i=1 G(¬pi )
                             allowed to become true

Upper Restricted Avoidance   The waypoint a can be visited on at most n separate visits       For     n              =              1,
                                                                                              ¬F(a ∧ (a U (¬a ∧ (¬a U Fa))))
                                                                                              For n = 2, ¬F(a ∧ (a U (a ∧
                                                                                              (¬a U F(a ∧ (a U (¬a ∧ (¬a U F a))))))))

Lower Restricted Avoidance   The waypoint a must be visited on at least n separate            For n = 1, ¬Fa
                             visits                                                           for n = 2, F(a ∧ (a U (¬a ∧ (¬a U Fa))))

Exact Restricted Avoidance   The waypoint a must be visited on exactly n separate             For n = 1, a M (¬a ∨ G(a ∨ G¬a))
                             visits                                                           For n = 2, (a ∧ F(¬a ∧ Fa))M(¬a ∨ G(a ∨
                                                                                              G(¬a ∨ G(a ∨ G¬a))))




                         Table 5: Example Commands from OpenStreetMap Dataset
LTL Type                     Command (with two referring expressions)
Visit                        move to Thai hot pot restaurant on Kneeland Street, and Vietnamese restaurant on Washington Street
Sequence Visit               visit Subway sandwich shop on The Plaza, followed by Zada Jane’s Cafe on Central Avenue
Ordered Visit                find Local Goods Chicago gift shop, but not until you find Currency exchange bureau, first
Strictly Ordered Visit       reach Citibank branch, and then Cutler Majestic Theater on Tremont Street, in that exact order without repetitions
Patrolling                   keep on visiting US Post Office on West Devon Avenue, and Kanellos Shoe Repair shop
Bound Delay                  you must go to Purple Lot parking area, immediately after you visit Royal Nails & Spa on South Main Street,
                             and you can not go to Purple Lot parking area, any other time
Delayed Reaction             you must visit Peruvian restaurant on Virginia Avenue, once you visit PNC Bank
Prompt Reaction              immediately after you go to Beachside Resortwear clothing store, you must go to Walgreens Pharmacy
Wait                         you can not go to other place from Publix supermarket, unless you see Beaches Museum
Past Avoidance               avoid visiting IES Test Prep school, till you observe bookstore on Elizabeth Street
Future Avoidance             never go to Commercial building on 5th Avenue, once you go to Cafe Metro
Global Avoidance             make sure to never reach either Citibank, or Seybolt Park
Upper Restricted Avoidance   go to Cocktail bar, at most twice
Lower Restricted Avoidance   you have to visit Main Branch of CoGo Bike Share Library for bicycle rental, two or more than two times
Exact Restricted Avoidance   navigate to Art shop on Bannock Street, exactly twice




                                                                  26
              Table 6: Results of Recognizing Referring Expression with Spatial Relations
Navigational Command                                                                                      Referring Expression(s)          Correctness
1. go to back of Common Market                                                                            back of Common Market            correct
2. always avoid entrance and exit of Little Sugar Creek, but visit left and right of Little Sugar Creek   entrance and exit of Little      correct
                                                                                                          Sugar Creek | left and right
                                                                                                          of Little Sugar Creek
3. stay at intersection of Thayer street and Waterman street                                              intersection of Thayer street    correct
                                                                                                          and Waterman street
4. move forward to the south of Edgebrook Coffee Ship                                                     south of Edgebrook Coffee        correct
                                                                                                          Ship
5. go to east of Chinatown, without visiting west of New Saigon Sandwich,
then go to front of New Saigon Sandwich, without visiting rear of Dumpling Cafe,
then go to rear of Dumpling Cafe, without visiting north of Emerson College - Little Building,
finally go to south Emerson College - Little Building, while only visiting each location once             east of Chinatown | west         correct
                                                                                                          of New Saigon Sandwich |
                                                                                                          front of New Saigon Sand-
                                                                                                          wich — rear of Dumpling
                                                                                                          Cafe | rear of Dumpling Cafe
                                                                                                          | north of Emerson College -
                                                                                                          Little Building | south Emer-
                                                                                                          son College - Little Building
6. go around big blue box                                                                                 big blue box                     incorrect
7. go to exit of blue area through between red room and blue one                                          exit of blue area | red room |   incorrect
                                                                                                          blue one
8. go to left of CVS and the stay on bridge                                                               left of CVS | bridge             incorrect
9. go pass right of Dairy Queen to left of Harris Teeter, end up at entrance of Wells Fargo               Dairy Queen | Harris Teeter      incorrect
                                                                                                          | Wells Fargo
10. move to My Sister’s Closet and stop close to bus stop near Ace Hardware                               My Sister’s Closet | bus stop    incorrect
                                                                                                          near Ace Hardware




                                                                     27
